DE Cloud based PHR platform; Smart health; Cloud framework; HCI;
   Distributed networking
AB Today's medical industry can be represented by a human-centered u-healthcare paradigm that is available and accessible anywhere, where high-tech IT can serve as the basis at any time and any place. In addition, in the medical industry, studies of many of the developments and applications are actively conducted based on the development of information communication technology. The aim of medical-information systems is the construction of an advanced IT and integrated u-healthcare system that evolves in the direction of integrated medical-based IT-convergence systems. Accordingly, to resolve the problems of telemedicine, in terms of the remote access to medical data, some public and private initiatives have been proposed, ranging from patient-mobility approaches to medical data. In addition, regarding GENICloud, which provides links with the existing future Internet testbeds and the Eucalyptus Cloud, two out of the seven GENIAM APIs have been announced as the common APIs of the future Internet testbeds in GENI, and they have been implemented and are provided. In the present GENI Cloud system, due to the provision of limited APIs, restrictions may occur in the future Internet testbeds and the Eucalyptus Cloud system management. Therefore, this study proposes a cloud-based mobile health service for the enhancement of the quality of service (QoS) including factors such as reliability and response time to resolve the problems of the broadband-communication infrastructure in the existing mobile health service and the delay problem on the wireless body area network. In this paper, we propose the cloud-based u-healthcare network with a QoS-guaranteed mobile health service. For this method, the TMO-distribution object model that was used in the existing research to implement a reliable and efficient cloud system for users was not used, and instead, a cloud-platform environment was built up through the construction of a distributed system based on a cluster-based mobile object. For this purpose, this study considered the characteristics of the wireless-communication environments between the terminals and the cloud servers in the mobile cloud environment and the proposed cloud mobility services and the specialized mobile cloud-control software. Later, for linkages with cloud computing environments and testbeds was proposed. In addition, this study carried out a cloud mobility-control design to provide a service in the mobile cloud environment that is based on the actual future Internet testbeds. Lastly, based on the structured cloud-platform environment, this study designed access interfaces to provide a mobile healthcare service in consideration of the user convenience. For the mobile-service access interfaces, since the same service interfaces can be used to access the characteristics and functions of all of the applications from browsers and device clients, the model-view-controller structure of the platform was designed, including the components for the further improvement of the requirements, reuse, and maintenance of the codes in medium and large distributed systems.