DE Resource provisioning; autonomic computing; MAPE loop; fuzzy Q-learning;
   Q-learning
ID RESOURCE; MANAGEMENT
AB Cloud computing relates to the storage and accessing of data as a service from Internet for any organizational infrastructure at-any-time. The delivery of some of the services related to computing such as servers, networking, storage, software, etc., is made possible with the use of cloud computing. Companies offer these services in terms of cloud service providers (CSPs) who charge for the services they provide to the users. When a request is made to use the services, the service provider allocates a feasible number of virtual machines (VMs). Determining optimum amount of resources required at runtime to satisfy the user's request is not a trivial task. Therefore, in cloud ecosystem the cardinal issue is the management of resource allocation to an application in order to abide by the service level agreements (SLAs). The fundamental objective of cloud service management is to design a self-adjustable auto-scalar to respond to elastic workload and optimizing the allocation of resources with reduced cost. The notable issue is how and at what time resources are to be allocated/de-allocated in order to follow agreed SLAs. In this paper, we propose a resource provisioning framework based on the integrated concepts of autonomic computing with Fuzzy Q Learning and Chebyshev's Inequality principle. The concept of auto-scaling mechanism is commonly implemented in four phases of proposed autonomic MAPE loop framework: Monitoring, Analysis, Planning and Execution. The proposed framework follows the control MAPE loop structure with the inclusion of Chebyshev's inequality for prediction in the analysis phase and fuzzy Q-learning in planning phase, where human intervention in the form of fuzzy rules ensures efficacious provisioning of VMs. A comparative analysis has been performed with a different combination of (i) LRM in the analysis phase with FBQ-LA in planning phase, ii) Chebyshev's Inequality in the analysis phase with FBQ-LA in planning phase, and iii) Chebyshev's Inequality in the analysis phase with Q-Learning in planning phase. Experimental results prove that the proposed autonomic model based on Chebyshev's inequality and FBQ-LA outperforms the existing model in terms of improved VM provisioning, minimized costs as well as reduction in response time.