DE Cloud computing; Virtual machine allocation; Evolutionary algorithm;
   Energy efficiency; VM acceptance ratio
ID CONSOLIDATION
AB To reduce the price of pay-as-you-go style cloud applications, an increasing number of cloud service providers offer resource reservation-based services that allow tenants to customize their virtual machines (VMS) with specific time windows and physical resources. However, due to the lack of efficient management of reserved services, the energy efficiency of host physical machines cannot be guaranteed. In today's highly competitive cloud computing market, such low energy efficiency will significantly reduce the profit margin of cloud service providers. Therefore, how to explore energy efficient VM allocation solutions for reserved services to achieve maximum profit is becoming a key issue for the operation and maintenance of cloud computing. To address this problem, this paper proposes a novel and effective evolutionary approach for VM allocation that can maximize the energy efficiency of a cloud data center while incorporating more reserved VMs. Aiming at accurate energy consumption estimation, our approach needs to simulate all the VM allocation updates, which is time-consuming using traditional cloud simulators. To overcome this, we have designed a simplified simulation engine for CloudSim that can accelerate the process of our evolutionary approach. Comprehensive experimental results obtained from both simulation on CloudSim and real cloud environments show that our approach not only can quickly achieve an optimized allocation solution for a batch of reserved VMs, but also can consolidate more VMs with fewer physical machines to achieve better energy efficiency than existing methods. To be specific, the overall profit improvement and energy savings achieved by our approach can be up to 24% and 41% as compared to state-of-the-art methods, respectively. Moreover, our approach could enable the cloud data center to serve more tenant requests. (C) 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.