DE Cloud computing; differential evolution; metaheuristics; Microsoft
   Azure; spark
ID GLOBAL OPTIMIZATION; MIGRATION; ALGORITHM; NETWORKS; MODEL
AB Many key problems in science and engineering can be formulated and solved using global optimization techniques. In the particular case of computational biology, the development of dynamic (kinetic) models is one of the current key issues. In this context, the problem of parameter estimation (model calibration) remains as a very challenging task. The complexity of the underlying models requires the use of efficient solvers to achieve adequate results in reasonable computation times. Metaheuristics have been the focus of great consideration as an efficient way of solving hard global optimization problems. Even so, in most realistic applications, metaheuristics require a very large computation time to obtain an acceptable result. Therefore, several parallel schemes have been proposed, most of them focused on traditional parallel programming interfaces and infrastructures. However, with the emergence of cloud computing, new programming models have been proposed to deal with large-scale data processing on clouds. In this paper we explore the applicability of these new models for global optimization problems using as a case study a set of challenging parameter estimation problems in systems biology. We have developed, using Spark, an island-based parallel version of Differential Evolution. Differential Evolution is a simple population-based metaheuristic that, at the same time, is very popular for being very efficient in real function global optimization. Several experiments were conducted both on a cluster and on the Microsoft Azure public cloud to evaluate the speedup and efficiency of the proposal, concluding that the Spark implementation achieves not only competitive speedup against the serial implementation, but also good scalability when the number of nodes grows. The results can be useful for those interested in using parallel metaheuristics for global optimization problems benefiting from the potential of new cloud programming models.