DE binaries: close; stars: atmospheres; subdwarfs; stars: Wolf-Rayet;
   galaxies: stellar content; ultraviolet: galaxies
ID STELLAR EVOLUTION MODELS; MASSIVE CLOSE BINARIES;
   LARGE-MAGELLANIC-CLOUD; H-ALPHA SURVEY; O-STARS; POPULATION SYNTHESIS;
   B-STARS; EUVE SPECTROSCOPY; GALACTIC PLANE; HOT SUBDWARFS
AB Stars stripped of their hydrogen-rich envelope through interaction with a binary companion are generally not considered when accounting for ionizing radiation from stellar populations, despite the expectation that stripped stars emit hard ionizing radiation, form frequently, and live 10-100 times longer than single massive stars. We compute the first grid of evolutionary and spectral models specially made for stars stripped in binaries for a range of progenitor masses (2-20 M-circle dot) and metallicities ranging from solar to values representative for pop II stars. For stripped stars with masses in the range 0.3-7 M-circle dot, we find consistently high effective temperatures (20 000-100 000 K, increasing with mass), small radii (0.2-1 R-circle dot), and high bolometric luminosities, comparable to that of their progenitor before stripping. The spectra show a continuous sequence that naturally bridges subdwarf-type stars at the low-mass end and Wolf-Rayet-like spectra at the high-mass end. For intermediate masses we find hybrid spectral classes showing a mixture of absorption and emission lines. These appear for stars with mass-loss rates of 10(-8)-10(-6) M-circle dot yr(-1), which have semi-transparent atmospheres. At low metallicity, substantial hydrogen-rich layers are left at the surface and we predict spectra that resemble O-type stars instead. We obtain spectra undistinguishable from subdwarfs for stripped stars with masses up to 1.7 M-circle dot, which questions whether the widely adopted canonical value of 0.47 M-circle dot is uniformly valid. Only a handful of stripped stars of intermediate mass have currently been identified observationally. Increasing this sample will provide necessary tests for the physics of interaction, internal mixing, and stellar winds. We use our model spectra to investigate the feasibility to detect stripped stars next to an optically bright companion and recommend systematic searches for their UV excess and possible emission lines, most notably Hell lambda 4686 in the optical and Hell lambda 1640 in the UV. Our models are publicly available for further investigations or inclusion in spectral synthesis simulations.