DE Task scheduling; Meta-heuristic algorithm; Chicken swarm optimization
   (CSO); Improve raven roosting optimization algorithm (IRRO); Cloud
   computing
AB Scheduling means devoting tasks among computational resources, considering specific goals. Cloud computing is facing a dynamic and rapidly evolving situation. Devoting tasks to the computational resources could be done in numerous different ways. As a consequence, scheduling of tasks in cloud computing is considered as a NP-hard problem. Meta-heuristic algorithms are a proper choice for improving scheduling in cloud computing, but they should, of course, be consistent with the dynamic situation in the field of cloud computing. One of the newest bio-inspired meta-heuristic algorithms is the chicken swarm optimization (CSO) algorithm. This algorithm is inspired by the hierarchical behavior of chickens in a swarm for finding food. The diverse movements of the chickens create a balance between the local and the global search for finding the optimal solution. Raven roosting optimization (RRO) algorithm is inspired by the social behavior of raven and the information flow between the members of the population with the goal of finding food. The advantage of this algorithm lies in using the individual perception mechanism in the process of searching the problem space. In the current work, an ICDSF scheduling framework is proposed. It is a hybrid (IRRO-CSO) meta-heuristic approach based on the improved raven roosting optimization algorithm (IRRO) and the CSO algorithm. The CSO algorithm is used for its efficiency in satisfying the balance between the local and the global search, and IRRO algorithm is chosen for solving the problem of premature convergence and its better performance in bigger search spaces. First, the performance of the proposed hybrid IRRO-CSO algorithm is compared with other imitation-based swarm intelligence methods using benchmark functions (CEC 2017). Then, the capabilities of the proposed scheduling hybrid algorithm (IRRO-CSO) are tested using the NASA-iPSC parallel workload and are compared with the other available algorithms. The obtained results from the implementation of the hybrid IRRO-CSO algorithm in MATLAB show an improvement in the average best fitness compared with the following algorithms: IRRO, RRO, CSO, BAT and PSO. Finally, simulation tests performed in cloud computing environment show improvements in terms of reduction of execution time, reduction of response time and the increase in throughput by using the proposed hybrid IRRO-CSO approach for dynamic scheduling.