DE anterior cruciate ligament (ACL); MRI; 3D-CT; tunnel position; revision;
   validation
ID 3-DIMENSIONAL COMPUTED-TOMOGRAPHY; ACL RECONSTRUCTION; GRAFT
   ORIENTATION; IMAGING ANALYSIS; PLACEMENT; MODELS; CT; RADIOGRAPHS;
   FLEXION
AB Background: No standardized methodology and objective criteria currently exist to accurately and objectively assess tunnel placement and consequent graft orientation in anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction (ACLR) through a single imaging modality. Advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology have enabled the use of volumetric high spatial and contrast resolution proton density-weighted sequencing, which allows precise delineation of graft orientation, tunnel position, and quantitative assessment of tunnel position relationship to adjacent reproducible anatomic landmarks.
   Purpose: To establish an MRI protocol that would provide an accurate alternative to 3-dimensional computed tomography (3D-CT) for standardized assessment of bone tunnel placement in ACLR, as a component of assessing ACLR outcomes and to assist in presurgical planning for revision ACLR.
   Study Design: Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2.
   Methods: Twenty-four participants diagnosed with a failed ACLR underwent MRI and 3D-CT per the imaging protocols of the Sydney Orthopaedic Research Institute, in which the acquired data were converted to 3D models. The bone tunnels of the previous ACLR were then intraoperatively digitized at the tunnel aperture and along the length of the tunnel (barrel) and used as the reference standard to evaluate the accuracy of high-resolution MRI and 3D-CT. Differences in geometry between the image-based model and the reference point cloud were calculated through point-to-point comparison.
   Results: At the tunnel apertures, no significant differences were detected between the MRI and 3D-CT models versus the reference models for the femur (P = .9472) and tibia (P = .5779). Mean SD tunnel barrel deviations between MRI and 3D-CT were 0.48 +/- 0.28 mm (femur) and 0.46 +/- 0.27 mm (tibia). No significant differences were detected between the MRI and 3D-CT models versus the reference models for the femoral (P = .5730) and tibial (P = .3002) tunnel barrels.
   Conclusion: This study demonstrated that, in addition to being the optimum modality for assessment of soft tissue injury of the knee, a high-resolution 3D turbo spin echo proton density sequence can provide an accurate assessment of tunnel placement, without the use of ionizing radiation. Therefore, this protocol provides the foundation for an objective standardized platform to quantitatively evaluate the location of ACL bone tunnels and graft orientation for routine postoperative assessment, presurgical planning, and evaluation of clinical outcomes.