DE Big data processing; Markov chain; Cloud computing; Queuing theory
AB Cloud computing allows execution and deployment of different types of applications such as interactive databases or web-based services which require distinctive types of resources. These applications lease cloud resources for a considerably long period and usually occupy various resources to maintain a high quality of service (QoS) factor. On the other hand, general big data batch processing workloads are less QoS-sensitive and require massively parallel cloud resources for short period. Despite the elasticity feature of cloud computing, fine-scale characteristics of cloud-based applications may cause temporal low resource utilization in the cloud computing systems, while process-intensive highly utilized workload suffers from performance issues. Therefore, ability of utilization efficient scheduling of heterogeneous workload is one challenging issue for cloud owners. In this paper, addressing the heterogeneity issue impact on low utilization of cloud computing system, conjunct resource allocation scheme of cloud applications and processing jobs is presented to enhance the cloud utilization. The main idea behind this paper is to apply processing jobs and cloud applications jointly in a preemptive way. However, utilization efficient resource allocation requires exact modeling of workloads. So, first, a novel methodology to model the processing jobs and other cloud applications is proposed. Such jobs are modeled as a collection of parallel and sequential tasks in a Markovian process. This enables us to analyze and calculate the efficient resources required to serve the tasks. The next step makes use of the proposed model to develop a preemptive scheduling algorithm for the processing jobs in order to improve resource utilization and its associated costs in the cloud computing system. Accordingly, a preemption-based resource allocation architecture is proposed to effectively and efficiently utilize the idle reserved resources for the processing jobs in the cloud paradigms. Then, performance metrics such as service time for the processing jobs are investigated. The accuracy of the proposed analytical model and scheduling analysis is verified through simulations and experimental results. The simulation and experimental results also shed light on the achievable QoS level for the preemptively allocated processing jobs.