DE Wireless seismic networking; Internet of things (IoT); Low-power
   wide-area networks (LPWANs)
ID SENSORS; OIL
AB There is growing pressure from regulators on operators to adhere to increasingly stricter regulations related to the environment and safety. Hence, operators are required to predict and contain risks related to hydrocarbon production and their infrastructure in order to maintain their licence to operate. A deeper understanding of production optimisation and production-related risk requires strengthened knowledge of reservoir behaviour and overburden dynamics. To accomplish this, sufficient temporal and spatial resolution is required as well as an integration of various sources of measurements. At the same time, tremendous developments are taking place in sensors, networks, and data analysis technologies. Sensors and accompanying channels are getting smaller and cheaper, and yet they offer high fidelity. New ecosystems of ubiquitous wireless communications including Internet of Things nowadays allow anyone to affordably connect to the Internet at any time and anywhere. Recent advances in cloud storage and computing combined with data analytics allow fast and efficient solutions to handle considerable amounts of data. This paper is an effort to pave the way for exploiting these three fundamental advances to create Internet of Things-based wireless networks of seismic sensors.
   To this aim, we propose to employ a recently developed Internet of Things-based wireless technology, so-called low-power wide-area networks, to exploit their long range, low power, and inherent compatibility to cloud storage and computing. We create a remotely operated minimum-maintenance wireless solution for four major seismic applications of interest. By proposing appropriate network architecture and data coordination (aggregation and transmission) designs, we show that neither the low data rate nor the low duty cycle of low-power wide-area networks imposes fundamental issues in handling a considerable amount of data created by complex seismic scenarios as long as the application is delay tolerant. In order to confirm this claim, we cast our ideas into a practical large-scale networking design for simultaneous seismic monitoring and interferometry and carry out an analysis on the data generation and transmission rates. Finally, we present some results from a small-scale field test in which we have employed our Internet of Things-based wireless nodes for real-time seismic quality control over clouds.