DE Decision making; Task analysis; Product design; Cloud computing; Brain
   modeling; Manufacturing; Product development; Design scheme evaluation;
   edge computing; enterprise system (ES); multicriteria decision-making
   (MCDM)
ID INDUSTRIAL INTERNET; EMOTION RECOGNITION; THINGS; SYSTEMS; SELECTION
AB Successful product development relies on the enterprise system (ES) to manage product lifecycle data and support decision-making in various levels. Since the amount of data generated in the industrial Internet of Things is increasing dramatically, new paradigms of the ES are required to realize the distributed intelligence. Recent progress in edge computing has enabled advances in decentralized decision support systems. Although the product design is a key stage of new product development, none of the recent studies in edge-based ES have shed light on this stage. Therefore, an edge-based ES framework for design scheme evaluation is proposed in this article. It not only accomplishes most of the decision-making tasks within the edge mesh of an enterprise, but also solves the information island of multiple decision makers from different geographical regions. Moreover, a multigroup decision-making algorithm is proposed to enable collaborative design scheme evaluation. The evaluation processes of designers, experts, and customers are analyzed systematically in this article. For one advantage, the trapezium cloud model is applied to convert the qualitative evaluation information given by designers and experts into qualitative values. It decreases the cognitive discrepancy and solves the information distortion. For another, EEG data are utilized to explore the implicit psychological states of customers during the product operation. All the evaluation results of multiple groups of decision makers are integrated by the fuzzy measure and Choquet integral to determine the optimal design scheme. A case study is conducted to illustrate the feasibility of the method proposed in this article.