DE Analytic Hierarchy Process; Cloud service ranking; Cloud computing;
   Quality of service; Service Measurement Index
ID MODEL; CRM; RFM
AB In the recent times, a large number of cloud services are being made available by the enormous cloud service providers (CSPs). The services are made available by the CSPs with a variety of Quality of Service (QoS) attributes. Service mapping is the process of allocating the service requesting customers (SRCs) to an appropriate CSP among available. The availability of enormous CSPs and their variety of QoS attributes complicates the process of service mapping. In the literature, it is considered as a multi criteria decision-making (MCDM) problem and rank based selection of suitable CSP is proposed for the service mapping. Ranking of CSPs is evaluated based on their offered QoS attributes value and the QoS attributes value desired by the SRC. Cloud is analogous to the business model where service provider customer relationship is established. In the business perspective, preference of both the participating entities (i.e. CSPs and SRCs) regarding their offered and desired QoS attributes must be considered during service mapping. Therefore, this paper proposes a novel two-way ranking based cloud service mapping framework (TRCSM). Ranking of both the participating entities is evaluated in the framework during service mapping by considering the QoS attributes value offered by them as well as desired by their counterpart. Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) has been used to evaluate the ranking score of both the CSPs and SRCs in TRCSM. The service mapping process used in TRCSM is depicted through a case study in the paper. Sensitivity analysis has been performed to validate the stability of the participating entities in the mapping process. The execution time of the service mapping algorithm used in the framework has been evaluated in the extensive simulation experiments. Results prove the time reasonability of service mapping algorithm used in the proposed framework. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.