DE Multi-date monitoring; Non-perennial rivers; Pool area; Remote sensing;
   Semi-arid environments; Variability; Water resources management; South
   Africa
ID DIFFERENCE WATER INDEX; QUANTIFYING ABOVEGROUND BIOMASS; CLASSIFICATION;
   EXTRACTION; ACCURACY; SHADOW; SENSOR; CLOUD; NDWI
AB Hydrological monitoring networks do not adequately cover non-perennial rivers in most parts of Africa partly because river flows do not frequently occur on these rivers. However, in the arid and semi-arid regions flows occurring on these rivers are an important resource that have to be managed judiciously. The lack of data on magnitudes, timing and frequency of non-perennial river flows constrain sustainable management of their water resources. The availability of moderate resolution satellite data (e.g. Sentinel-2 Multispectral Instrument and Landsat 8 Operational Land Imager) offers an opportunity to monitor the surface water availability specifically changes in surface areas covered with water in pools along these rivers. In this study, we investigated the use of remote sensing data to detect and monitor changes of water surface areas of pools along three non-perennial rivers and one perennial river in the Western Cape, South Africa, from 2016 to 2017, using Landsat 8 and Sentinel-2 datasets. We assessed a range of image pre-processing and image classification techniques to determine the most suitable method for surface water identification and pool area estimation along the selected rivers. The following indices were used; Normalised Difference Water Index (NDWI), Modified NDWI (MNDWI), Normalised Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), Automated Water Extraction Index for shadowed (AWEI(sh)), non-shadowed regions (AWEL(nsh)), and the Multi-Band Water Index (MBWI). The NDWI computed from Sentinel-2 TOA reflectance datasets was found to be the most suitable index for mapping pools, with an overall accuracy ranging between 60 and 86%. This index was used successfully to establish the variations of surface areas of pools covered with water along the Breede, Nuwejaars, Tankwa and Touws Rivers during the 2016-2017 period. The temporal variations of pool areas could be explained as expected by changes of rainfall and potential evapotranspiration. Overall, the study demonstrated the feasibility of using moderate resolution datasets to monitor pool changes of areas covered with water in non-perennial rivers, which contributes to improved management of water resources particularly in arid and semi-arid environments.