DE Data centers; Servers; Data models; Predictive models; Training data;
   Support vector machines; Reliability; Disk failure; machine learning;
   transfer learning; cloud computing; data center
ID NEURAL-NETWORK; CLASSIFICATION
AB The storage system in large scale data centers is typically built upon thousands or even millions of disks, where disk failures constantly happen. A disk failure could lead to serious data loss and thus system unavailability or even catastrophic consequences if the lost data cannot be recovered. While replication and erasure coding techniques have been widely deployed to guarantee storage availability and reliability, disk failure prediction is gaining popularity as it has the potential to prevent disk failures from occurring in the first place. Recent trends have turned toward applying machine learning approaches based on disk SMART attributes for disk failure predictions. However, traditional machine learning (ML) approaches require a large set of training data in order to deliver good predictive performance. In large-scale storage systems, new disks enter gradually to augment the storage capacity or to replace failed disks, leading storage systems to consist of small amounts of new disks from different vendors and/or different models from the same vendor as time goes on. We refer to this relatively small amount of disks as minority disks. Due to the lack of sufficient training data, traditional ML approaches fail to deliver satisfactory predictive performance in evolving storage systems which consist of heterogeneous minority disks. To address this challenge and improve the predictive performance for minority disks in large data centers, we propose a minority disk failure prediction model named TLDFP based on a transfer learning approach. Our evaluation results in two realistic datasets have demonstrated that TLDFP can deliver much more precise results and lower additional maintenance cost, compared to four popular prediction models based on traditional ML algorithms and two state-of-the-art transfer learning methods.