DE Cloud computing; User revocation; Public auditing; Proxy re-signatures;
   Multi-information proprietor batch auditing; Regression method
ID WAVELENGTH CONVERTERS; EFFICIENT; PRIVACY
AB Cloud repository is one of the most important services afforded by Cloud Computing where information is preserved, maintained, archived in distant servers and made available to the users over the Internet. Provided with the cloud repository facilities, customers can organize themselves as a cluster and distribute information with one another. In order to allow public integrity auditing on the information stored in semi-trusted cloud server, customers compute the signatures for every chunk of the shared information. When a malicious client is repudiated from the group, the chunks that were outsourced to the cloud server by this renounced customer need to be verified and re-signed by the customer present in the cluster (i.e., the straightforward approach) which results in huge transmission and reckoning cost for the customer. In order to minimize the burden of customers present in the cluster, in the existing scheme Panda, the semi-trusted Cloud Service Provider (CSP) is allowed to compute theRe-signkey. Further, the CSP audits and re-signs the revoked customer chunks by utilizing theRe-signkey. So, it is easy for the CSP by colluding with the revoked customer to find the secret keys of the existing customer. We introduce a novel Collusion Resistant User Revocable Public Auditing of Shared Data in Cloud (CRUPA) by making use of the concept of regression technique. In order to secure the secret keys of the existing customers from the CSP, we have allowed the information proprietor to compute theRe-signkey using the regression technique. Whenever the information proprietor revokes the customer from the cluster, the information proprietor computes theRe-signkey using the regression technique and sends to the CSP. Further, the CSP audits and re-signs the revoked customer chunks using theRe-signkey. TheRe-signkey computed by the information proprietor using regression method is highly secure and the malicious CSP cannot find the private information of the customers in the cluster. Besides, our mechanism achieves significant improvement in the computation cost of theRe-signkey by information proprietor. Further, the proposed scheme is collusion resistant, supports effective and secure customer repudiation, multi-information proprietor batch auditing and is scalable.