ID ENERGY; OCEAN; WATER; CIRCULATION; PERFORMANCE; ERA
AB An objective approach is presented for scoring coupled climate simulations through an evaluation against satellite and reanalysis datasets during the satellite era (i.e., since 1979). The approach is motivated, described, and applied to available Coupled Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP) archives and the Community Earth System Model (CESM) Version 1 Large Ensemble archives with the goal of robustly benchmarking model performance and its evolution across CMIP generations. A scoring system is employed that minimizes sensitivity to internal variability, external forcings, and model tuning. Scores are based on pattern correlations of the simulated mean state, seasonal contrasts, and ENSO teleconnections. A broad range of feedback-relevant fields is considered and summarized on discrete timescales (climatology, seasonal, interannual) and physical realms (energy budget, water cycle, dynamics). Fields are also generally chosen for which observational uncertainty is small compared to model structural differences.
   Highest mean variable scores across models are reported for well-observed fields such as sea level pressure, precipitable water, and outgoing longwave radiation, while the lowest scores are reported for 500 hPa vertical velocity, net surface energy flux, and precipitation minus evaporation. The fidelity of models is found to vary widely both within and across CMIP generations. Systematic increases in model fidelity in more recent CMIP generations are identified, with the greatest improvements occurring in dynamic and energetic fields. Such examples include shortwave cloud forcing and 500 hPa eddy geopotential height and relative humidity. Improvements in ENSO scores with time are substantially greater than for climatology or seasonal timescales.
   Analysis output data generated by this approach are made freely available online from a broad range of model ensembles, including the CMIP archives and various single-model large ensembles. These multimodel archives allow for an expeditious analysis of performance across a range of simulations, while the CESM large ensemble archive allows for estimation of the influence of internal variability on computed scores. The entire output archive, updated and expanded regularly, can be accessed at http://webext.cgd.ucar.edu/Multi-Case/CMAT/index.html (last access: 18 August 2020).