ID PREFERENTIAL CONCENTRATION; HEAVY-PARTICLES; SIMULATIONS; VELOCITY;
   STATISTICS
AB The clustering of small heavy inertial particles subjected to Stokes drag in turbulence, which is the concern of present study, is known to be minimal at small and large Stokes number and substantial at St = O(1). This nonmonotonic trend, which has been shown computationally and experimentally, is yet to be explained analytically. In this study, we obtain an analytical expression for the Lyapunov exponents that quantitatively predicts this trend. The sum of the exponents, which is the normalized rate of change of the signed volume of a small cloud of particles, is correctly predicted to be negative and positive at small and large Stokes numbers, respectively, asymptoting to tau Q as tau -> 0 and tau(-1/2) vertical bar Q vertical bar(1/4) as tau -> infinity, where tau is the particle relaxation time and Q(tau) is the difference between the norm of the rotation- and strain-rate tensors computed along the particle trajectory, which remains negative at all tau in turbulent flows. Additionally, the trajectory crossing is predicted only in hyperbolic flows where Q < 0 for sufficiently inertial particles with a tau that scales with vertical bar Q vertical bar(-1/2). Following the onset of crossovers, a transition from clustering to dispersion is predicted correctly. We show these behaviors are not unique to three-dimensional isotropic turbulence and can be reproduced closely by a one-dimensional mono-harmonic flow, which appears as a fundamental canonical problem in the study of particle clustering. Analysis of this one-dimensional canonical flow shows that the rate of clustering, quantified as the product of the Lyapunov exponent and particle relaxation time, is bounded by -1/2, behaving with extreme nonlinearity in the hyperbolic flows and always remaining positive in the elliptic flows. This model problem also confirms that dispersion in a hyperbolic flow will occur only if particles' trajectory cross. These findings, which stem from our analysis, are corroborated by the direct numerical simulations.