DE Cloud computing; Energy-aware resource allocation; Genetic algorithm;
   Artificial bee colony; Tabu search; Tabu Job Master
ID MANAGEMENT; EFFICIENT; SYSTEM
AB Cloud computing delivers practical solutions for long-term image archiving systems. Cloud data centers consume enormous amounts of electrical energy that increases their operational costs. This shows the importance of investing on energy consumption techniques. Dynamic placement of virtual machines to appropriate physical nodes using metaheuristic algorithms is among the methods of reducing energy consumption. In metaheuristic algorithms, there should be a balance between both exploration and exploitation aspects so that they can find better solutions in a search space. Exploration means looking for a solution in a wider area, while exploitation is producing new solutions from existence ones. Artificial bee colony optimization, which is a biological metaheuristic algorithm, is a sign-oriented approach. It has a strong exploration ability, but a relatively weaker exploitation power. On the other hand, tabu search is a popular algorithm that shows better exploitation in comparison with ABC. In this study, cloud computing environments are detailed with an allocation protocol for efficient energy and resource management. The technique of energy-aware allocation splits data centers (DCs) resources among client applications end routes to enhance energy efficacy of DCs and also achieves anticipated quality of service (QoS) for everyone. Heuristic protocols are exercised for optimizing the distribution of resources to upgrade the efficiency of DC. In the current paper, energy-aware resources allotment technique is employed and optimized in clouds via a new approach called Tabu Job Master (JM). Tabu JM claims the benefits of some variables and also rapid convergence speeds. Results are duly achieved for energy consumption-the count of virtual machines (VMs) migration and also makespan. The results shown by Tabu JM are benchmarked by using genetic algorithm (GA), artificial bee colony (ABC), ABC with crossover and technique of mutation, the basic tabu search techniques, and Tabu Job Master.