DE Internet of Things; mobile edge clouds; network function virtualization;
   quality of services; approximation algorithms
ID NFV; MAXIMIZATION; ALGORITHMS; CLOUD
AB Mobile edge computing and network function virtualization (NFV) paradigms enable new flexibility and possibilities of the deployment of extreme low-latency services for Internet-of-Things (IoT) applications within the proximity of their users. However, this poses great challenges to find optimal placements of virtualized network functions (VNFs) for data processing requests of IoT applications in a multi-tier cloud network, which consists of many small- or medium-scale servers, clusters, or cloudlets deployed within the proximity of IoT nodes and a few large-scale remote data centers with abundant computing and storage resources. In particular, it is challenging to jointly consider VNF instance placement and routing traffic path planning for user requests, as they are not only delay sensitive but also resource hungry.
   In this article, we consider admissions of NFV-enabled requests of IoT applications in a multi-tier cloud network, where users request network services by issuing service requests with service chain requirements, and the service chain enforces the data traffic of the request to pass through the VNFs in the chain one by one until it reaches its destination. To this end, we first formulate the throughput maximization problem with the aim to maximize the system throughput. We then propose an integer linear program solution if the problem size is small; otherwise, we devise an efficient heuristic that jointly takes into account VNF placements to both cloudlets and data centers and routing path finding for each request. For a special case of the problem with a set of service chains, we propose an approximation algorithm with a provable approximation ratio. Next, we also devise efficient learning-based heuristics for VNF provisioning for loT applications by incorporating the mobility and energy conservation features of IoT devices. We finally evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithms by simulations. The simulation results show that the performance of the proposed algorithms is promising.