DE cloud security; cipher-text; attribute-based encryption; advanced
   encryption standard; access control; DoS detection; privacy
ID ATTRIBUTE-BASED ENCRYPTION; SECURITY; CHALLENGES
AB Cloud computing technology has revolutionized the field of data management as it has enhanced the barriers of storage restrictions and high-cost establishment for its users. The benefits of the cloud have paved the way for its extensive implementation in large enterprises. However, the data in the cloud have succumbed to various security threats, and its privacy issues remain one of the biggest and topmost concerns for the data owners. Several techniques, such as Attribute-based Encryption (ABE), have been proposed by several researchers to preserve the privacy of the data. However, the issue of security still looms largely over the cloud. In the present work, we introduce the novel encryption model called "Advanced Encryption Standard-Cipher-text-Identity and Attribute-based Encryption" (AES-CP-IDABE) to preserve data privacy along with its access control. In the proposed scheme, the data have been double encrypted initially through the ABE, along with the attributes and the identity of the user. Secondly, the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is used to encrypt the encrypted data and provide it to the authorized users. The user access control is established using the digital signature with the help of user ID and security keys. Additionally, the set up includes Denial-of-Service (DoS) detection through IP address monitoring and control. The proposed scheme has also been evaluated for its performance in the communication between the user and the data owner, along with the user's execution time. From the outcome, it is evident that the proposed scheme was more effective than the existing scheme of ABE over execution, encryption, and decryption time. Additionally, the performance over DoS detection and impact of attribute numbers for the proposed scheme was also studied to prove its effectiveness.