DE Cloud computing; Resource management; Thermal-aware; Simulation; Deep
   learning; Energy
ID SCHEDULING ALGORITHM; VIRTUAL MACHINES; DATA CENTERS; ENERGY;
   INFRASTRUCTURE; SYSTEMS
AB Current cloud computing frameworks host millions of physical servers that utilize cloud computing resources in the form of different virtual machines. Cloud Data Center (CDC) infrastructures require significant amounts of energy to deliver large scale computational services. Moreover, computing nodes generate large volumes of heat, requiring cooling units in turn to eliminate the effect of this heat. Thus, overall energy consumption of the CDC increases tremendously for servers as well as for cooling units. However, current workload allocation policies do not take into account effect on temperature and it is challenging to simulate the thermal behavior of CDCs. There is a need for a thermal-aware framework to simulate and model the behavior of nodes and measure the important performance parameters which can be affected by its temperature. In this paper, we propose a lightweight framework, ThermoSim, for modeling and simulation of thermal-aware resource management for cloud computing environments. This work presents a Recurrent Neural Network based deep learning temperature predictor for CDCs which is utilized by ThermoSim for lightweight resource management in constrained cloud environments. ThermoSim extends the CloudSim toolkit helping to analyze the performance of various key parameters such as energy consumption, service level agreement violation rate, number of virtual machine migrations and temperature during the management of cloud resources for execution of workloads. Further, different energy-aware and thermal-aware resource management techniques are tested using the proposed ThermoSim framework in order to validate it against the existing framework (Thas). The experimental results demonstrate the proposed framework is capable of modeling and simulating the thermal behavior of a CDC and ThermoSim framework is better than Thas in terms of energy consumption, cost, time, memory usage and prediction accuracy. (C) 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.