DE Edge computing; 5G; Vehicle-to-anything (V2X); Road condition
   monitoring; Security and privacy
ID CERTIFICATELESS ENCRYPTION; AUTHENTICATION SCHEME; SECURITY MODEL;
   PRESERVATION; SIGNATURE; LOCATION
AB Recently much research has been carried out towards the road condition monitoring system for improving the road safety and moving towards modern intelligent transportation system (ITS). 5G-based vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication offers wider support and enhances the capabilities of road monitoring systems. The road monitoring systems utilizes the vehicles to report road conditions, traffic information or accidents to the roadside units (RSUs), which further relays such information to the cloud server for computing and processing. Then the cloud computing network redirects the necessary actions based on the these received reports. The major problem with this type of architecture is that it requires long computational time and causes high network latency. This also leads to poor utilization of bandwidth. As a result, in this paper a new network protocol has been proposed based on edge-based computing. In this paper, we present a new privacy preserving protocol to boost the security in vehicular network, by utilizing the concept of edge-based computing. The major concern in edge-based architecture is that all the data processing is performed at edge nodes which have various security holes. To secure the edge-based processing, we propose the idea of improved certificate-less aggregation sign-cryption scheme (iCLASC) with incorporating the information transmission protocol to formulate the road monitoring data. Confidentiality, integrity, joint authentication, privacy and anonymity are the key components of the security protocol. Lastly, we make the comparisons of the proposed work with the existing works in terms of computational cost, communication overhead and security feature analysis. Our scheme outperform all the previous methods and shows satisfactory security and communication performance requires for 5G-V2X Communication.