DE Network functions virtualization; reliability; cloud datacenter;
   optimization; routing; VNF; NFV
AB Network Function Virtualization (NFV) has revolutionized service provisioning in cloud datacenter networks. It enables the complete decoupling of Network Functions (NFs) from the physical hardware middle boxes that network operators deploy for implementing service-specific and strictly ordered NF chains. Precisely, NFV allows for dispatching NFs as instances of plain software called virtual network functions (VNFs) running on virtual machines hosted by one or more industry standard physical machines. Nevertheless, NF softwarization introduces processing vulnerability (e.g., failures caused by hardware or software, and so on). Since any failure of VNFs could break down an entire service chain, thus interrupting the service, the functionality of an NFV-enabled network will require a higher reliability compared with traditional networks. This paper encloses an in-depth investigation of a reliability-aware joint VNF chain placement and flow routing optimization. In order to guarantee the required reliability, an incremental approach is proposed to determine the number of required VNF backups. Through illustration, it is shown herein that the formulated single path routing model can be easily extended to support resource sharing between adjacent backup VNF instances. This paper advocates the absolute existence of a share-resource-based VNF assignment strategy that is capable of trading off all of the reliability, bandwidth, and computing resources consumption of a given service chain. A heuristic is proposed to work around the complexity of the presently formulated integer linear programming (ILP). Thorough numerical analysis and simulations are conducted in order to verify and assert the validity, correctness, and effectiveness of this proposed heuristic reflecting its ability to achieve very close results to those obtained through the resolution of the complex ILP within a negligible amount of time. Above and beyond, the proposed resource-sharing-based VNF placement scheme outperforms existing resource-sharing agnostic schemes by 15.6% and 14.7% in terms of bandwidth and CPU utilization respectively.