DE Intelligent mobile communication; Edge computing; Security integration
   model; Private data
ID BLOCKCHAIN; INTERNET; CLOUD
AB This paper proposes a security integration model of mobile intelligent private data for edge computing. According to the characteristics of the heterogeneous network of edge computing networks, the network is layered according to the mobile intelligent private data structure. The homomorphism encryption algorithm is adopted to enable private data to be transmitted and stored in the form of ciphertext on the edge network and the mobile terminal. The encryption model ensures that the device data is not peeped by malicious attackers. Besides, the application layer system model is designed to enable service providers to integrate their hardware resources and provide a unified edge computing solution for different data owners. The experiment evaluated its encryption performance and system availability. An edge network security defense model based on a mean-field game is established, and an edge network security defense algorithm is proposed. Based on the study of the relationship between the individual edge network equipment's optimal defense strategy and the overall edge network's optimal defense strategy, the individual cost of the edge network equipment is analyzed by proving the existence of the edge network equipment balance. The optimal conditions between the overall cost of the edge network are given under this condition. The simulation results showed that for large-scale edge network devices, the model realized the unity of the optimal defense strategies of the individual edge network devices and the entire edge network, and effectively reduces the consumption of computing resources of the edge network devices Because all migration strategies allow all devices to migrate their computing tasks to MBS, leading to severe uplink and downlink congestion, wireless transmission energy consumption has increased dramatically. The energy consumption of migration calculation is higher than that of local calculation.