DE Microwave remote sensing; Optical remote sensing; Root zone soil
   moisture; Vegetation optical depth; Live fuel moisture content; Fire
   risk; LFMC; VOD; VARI; NDVI; SAVI
ID ZONE SOIL-MOISTURE; VEGETATION OPTICAL DEPTH; DIFFERENCE WATER INDEX;
   IN-SITU OBSERVATIONS; NEAR-SURFACE; AMSR-E; RADIOFREQUENCY INTERFERENCE;
   SPECTRAL REFLECTANCE; SEASONAL-CHANGES; SMOS
AB Live fuel moisture content (LFMC) is an important factor in fire risk management in the Mediterranean region. Drawing upon a large network of stations (the Reseau Hydrique) measuring LFMC for operational fire danger assessment in the south-eastern region of France, this study assesses the ability of several long-term passive microwave remote sensing indices to capture the LFMC temporal dynamic of various Mediterranean shrub species. Microwave remote sensing has a high potential for monitoring LFMC independently of several constraints (e.g., atmospheric and cloud contamination effects) associated with optical-infrared and thermal remote sensing observations. The following four microwave-derived indices are considered: (1) the Essential Climate Variable near-surface soil moisture (ECV_SM); (2) the root-zone soil moisture (ECV_RZSM) derived from ECV_SM; (3) the microwave polarization difference index (MPDI) computed from five microwave frequencies (C, X, Ku, K and Ka-band corresponding to 6.9, 10.7, 18.7, 23.8 and 36.5 GHz respectively); and (4) the vegetation optical depth (VOD) at C- and X-band (from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer for the Earth observing system, AMSR-E). Firstly, an evaluation of the root-zone soil moisture ECV_RZSM against a network of soil moisture measurements (SMOSMANIA in southern France) gave satisfactory results. For most of the Reseau Hydrique sites, the present study found good agreement between LFMC and individual microwave indices, including root-zone soil moisture, VOD at X-band, and MPDI at X and Ku-bands, all averaged over the 15 days preceding the in-situ LFMC measurements. VOD at X-band showed the best agreement with the in situ LFMC data (median of correlation coefficients over all in situ sites = 0.43). Further comparisons between LFMC data and several optical indices computed from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MODIS) data including normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), soil adjusted vegetation index (SAVI), visible atmospheric resistant index (VARI), normalized difference water index (NDWI), normalized difference infrared index 6 (NDII6), normalized difference infrared index 7 (NDII7) and global vegetation moisture index (GVMI) were made. The comparisons showed that VARI and SAVI, as optical greenness indices, outperform the microwave indices and other optical indices with median of correlation coefficients of 0.66 and 0.65, respectively. Overall, this study shows that passive microwave indices, particularly VOD, are efficient proxies for LFMC of Mediterranean shrub species and could be used along with optical indices to evaluate fire risks in the Mediterranean region.