DE Edge computing; Fog computing; Internet of Things
ID ENERGY; CHALLENGES; SERVICE; MODEL; GAME
AB Advancements in smart devices, wearable gadgets, sensors, and communication paradigm have enabled the vision of smart cities, pervasive healthcare, augmented reality and interactive multimedia, Internet of Every Thing (loE), and cognitive assistance, to name a few. All of these visions have one thing in common, i.e., delay sensitivity and instant response. Various new technologies designed to work at the edge of the network, such as fog computing, cloudlets, mobile edge computing, and micro data centers have emerged in the near past. We use the name "edge computing" for this set of emerging technologies. Edge computing is a promising paradigm to offer the required computation and storage resources with minimal delays because of "being near" to the users or terminal devices. Edge computing aims to bring cloud resources and services at the edge of the network, as a middle layer between end user and cloud data centers, to offer prompt service response with minimal delay. Two major aims of edge computing can be denoted as: (a) minimize response delay by servicing the users' request at the network edge instead of servicing it at far located cloud data centers, and (b) minimize downward and upward traffic volumes in the network core. Minimization of network core traffic inherently brings energy efficiency and data cost reductions. Downward network traffic can be minimized by servicing set of users at network edge instead of service provider's data centers (e.g., multimedia and shared data) Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), and upward traffic can be minimized by processing and filtering raw data (e.g., sensors monitored data) and uploading the processed information to cloud. This survey presents a detailed overview of potentials, trends, and challenges of edge computing. The survey illustrates a list of most significant applications and potentials in the area of edge computing. State of the art literature on edge computing domain is included in the survey to guide readers towards the current trends and future opportunities in the area of edge computing. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier B.V.