DE information communication technologies; on-line tools; linguistic and
   country study competency; linguistic and country study component;
   linguistic and country study knowledge
AB The article deals with the problem of developing the linguistic and country study competency of the students of foreign languages faculties by means of various ICT scenarios. Possible solutions to the problem and the corresponding methods for the use of digital technologies have been suggested. The urgency of using ICT scenarios in foreign languages training has been grounded. The authors identify some existing contradictions that define the theoretical and methodological problem of developing the linguistic and country study competency of the foreign languages students by using various ICT scenarios. The theoretical foundations and the methods of the research conducted have been presented. The increase in the scope of linguistic and country study competency helps to encourage motivation and results in more meaningful attitude to foreign language acquisition. It is mentioned that the most appropriate tasks in the developing of linguistic and country study competency can be: using of unified information space system of educational institution; web-based search skills; joint activities with other participants by means of online resources; using online tools for publishing and sharing their professional achievements. It is emphasized that creation of the open educational environment requires technologies and on-line tools that will allow and facilitate distance learning and constant analysis of certain linguistic phenomena, realities of the target-language country, associative connections through comparison with the native language of the learners. Leveraging technologies, based on the concept of cloud computing that demonstrate location, provision and use of software capability and computer resources, that are available through the Internet as services on various platforms and devices, have been presented. The results of the study are generalized and prospects for further research are outlined.