DE Internet of things; software defined networking; security; blockchain;
   cloud computing; fog computing; edge computing
ID INTERNET; THINGS
AB The recent expansion of the Internet of Things (IoT) and the consequent explosion in the volume of data produced by smart devices have led to the outsourcing of data to designated data centers. However, to manage these huge data stores, centralized data centers, such as cloud storage cannot afford auspicious way. There are many challenges that must be addressed in the traditional network architecture due to the rapid growth in the diversity and number of devices connected to the internet, which is not designed to provide high availability, real-time data delivery, scalability, security, resilience, and low latency. To address these issues, this paper proposes a novel blockchain-based distributed cloud architecture with a software defined networking (SDN) enable controller fog nodes at the edge of the network to meet the required design principles. The proposed model is a distributed cloud architecture based on blockchain technology, which provides low-cost, secure, and on-demand access to the most competitive computing infrastructures in an IoT network. By creating a distributed cloud infrastructure, the proposed model enables cost-effective high-performance computing. Furthermore, to bring computing resources to the edge of the IoT network and allow low latency access to large amounts of data in a secure manner, we provide a secure distributed fog node architecture that uses SDN and blockchain techniques. Fog nodes are distributed fog computing entities that allow the deployment of fog services, and are formed by multiple computing resources at the edge of the IoT network. We evaluated the performance of our proposed architecture and compared it with the existing models using various performance measures. The results of our evaluation show that performance is improved by reducing the induced delay, reducing the response time, increasing throughput, and the ability to detect real-time attacks in the IoT network with low performance overheads.