DE Vehicular and wireless technologies; intelligent transportation systems;
   data preprocessing; real time systems; ubiquitous computing
ID AD-HOC NETWORKS; EDGE; CLOUD; SECURITY; PRIVACY; CARS
AB The intelligent transportation system (ITS) concept was introduced to increase road safety, manage traffic efficiently, and preserve our green environment. Nowadays, ITS applications are becoming more data-intensive and their data are described using the "5Vs of Big Data''. Thus, to fully utilize such data, big data analytics need to be applied. The Internet of vehicles (IoV) connects the ITS devices to cloud computing centres, where data processing is performed. However, transferring huge amount of data from geographically distributed devices creates network overhead and bottlenecks, and it consumes the network resources. In addition, following the centralized approach to process the ITS big data results in high latency which cannot be tolerated by the delay-sensitive ITS applications. Fog computing is considered a promising technology for real-time big data analytics. Basically, the fog technology complements the role of cloud computing and distributes the data processing at the edge of the network, which provides faster responses to ITS application queries and saves the network resources. However, implementing fog computing and the lambda architecture for real-time big data processing is challenging in the IoV dynamic environment. In this regard, a novel architecture for real-time ITS big data analytics in the IoV environment is proposed in this paper. The proposed architecture merges three dimensions including intelligent computing (i.e. cloud and fog computing) dimension, real-time big data analytics dimension, and IoV dimension. Moreover, this paper gives a comprehensive description of the IoV environment, the ITS big data characteristics, the lambda architecture for real-time big data analytics, several intelligent computing technologies. More importantly, this paper discusses the opportunities and challenges that face the implementation of fog computing and real-time big data analytics in the IoV environment. Finally, the critical issues and future research directions section discusses some issues that should be considered in order to efficiently implement the proposed architecture.