DE Cloud computing; fog computing; edge computing; OpenStack; IoT;
   containers
ID OF-THE-ART; COMPUTING-STATE; THINGS; INTERNET; CHALLENGES; IOT;
   INTEGRATION; ISSUES
AB In recent years, a new trend of advanced applications with huge demands in terms of Quality of Service (QoS) is gaining ground. Even though Cloud computing provides mature management facilities with ubiquitous capabilities, novel requirements and workloads, foisted by new services, start to expose its weaknesses. In this context, a new Information and Communication Technologies (ICI) trend aims at pushing computation from the Cloud to be much close as possible to data sources, raising in the evolution of new paradigms namely Fog and Mist computing. Specifically, the Fog computing paradigm exploits powerful nodes such as servers, routers, and cloudlets that are coupled with the end devices or their access networks accordingly; they are "relatively" close by the data sources. Whereas Mist computing, which is a lightweight form of Fog computing, pushes the resources even closer. Precisely, Mist computing uses particular nodes that could reside within the same network (e.g., Local Area Network (LAN)) as the end-devices. Considering the advancement that the hardware is knowing nowadays, Fog and Mist nodes are seen suitable to provide resources such as processing, storage, and networking in the proximity of data sources; thereby, the requirements of the new services could be met. Together with the Cloud, the Fog and Mist paradigms introduce a stacked architecture for data processing where a data pre-processing could be performed at the Mist level, then offloaded vertically to the upper layers (i.e., Fog nodes or the Cloud). In these circumstances, it is fundamental to build a management system able to provision efficiently the Fog/Mist-based applications. For this purpose, the Operating System (OS)-level virtualization using containerization technologies, considering its light footprint, fits as a suitable solution to provide Fog/Mist services. The industrial-grade Cloud middlewares, such as OpenStack, which is a reference architecture for Infrastructure-as-a-Service solutions, are still far away from incorporating this new trend. This article proposes an OpenStack-based middleware platform through which containers can be deployed/managed at the Fog/Mist levels.