DE Libraries; Electronic books; Collection development; E-book - criterion
   and indicators; E-book 2013 adoption; Library - Paradigm of the clouds
   computing
ID ACADEMIC-LIBRARIES; CHALLENGES; SERVICES; ACCESS
AB Purpose This paper aims to propose criteria and indicators for the adoption of e-books in libraries in the context of the cloud computing paradigm.
   Design/methodology/approach This paper carried out bibliographical and documentary research and the application of a questionnaire. Sampling focused on five library managers and five e-book vendor managers.
   Findings A proposal is presented containing a set of three criteria and their respective indicators. The technology platform criterion consists of seven indicators: patron data privacy, patron data security, availability of services, accessibility of information in e-books, interoperability of the technology platform, digital preservation and portability of e-books. The criterion for the acquisition of e-books involves three indicators: forms of commercialization, acquisition models and selection of e-book titles. The criterion for the circulation of e-books is divided into two indicators: unlimited and limited use. In the unlimited use mode, there are no limits on the use of e-books. In limited use, there are 11 levels of permissions: available copies, number of loans under each license, duration of the license, interlibrary loan, reading only in digital format, reading online via streaming only, download on the patron's device, content printing, loan according to the patron's identity, reservation services and renewal services.
   Practical implications This paper provides a set of criteria and indicators that can aid in the construction of policies and the development of collections, programs and projects directed toward the use of e-books in libraries.
   Originality/value This paper contributes socially by presenting a proposal that can support policies of evaluation and development of collections, projects, programs and actions around the adoption of e-books in different types of libraries.