DE logistic innovations; new technologies; logistics system; logistics
   process management
ID INNOVATION; FRAMEWORK
AB The aim of the article. The aim of the article is to investigate the most up-to-date technologies, concepts, innovations that directly or indirectly influence or may influence the development of logistics in future, as well as to analyze the possibilities of their influence on certain subsystems and phases of the logistic process.
   The results of the analysis. The potential for increasing the efficiency of the logistics processes should be sought primarily in the latest technologies and all kinds of innovations based on these technologies, such as: business analytics; mobile technologies and applications; electric vehicles; Internet of things; automatic identification and data collection (AIDC); e-commerce; cloud computing; omnichannel logistics; unmanned vehicles and drones; 3D printing; embedded systems; intellectual production; logistics of the circular economy; truck platooning; robotics; machine-to-machine communications etc. Some of these technologies are implemented only at the level of research and early scientific developments, creation of early prototypes and pilot projects, others undergo active use and commercialization.
   New technologies affect different subsystems and functional areas of logistics in different ways. For instance, construction of special 3D printing mini-factories may change the characteristics of inventory management subsystem and customer service subsystem; by phase division, 3D printing technology modifies supply logistics, production logistics, sales logistics, recycling logistics. Unmanned vehicles greatly affect the transportation subsystem, as well as supply and sale logistics.
   Conclusions and directions for further research. In the era of the development of information technology, outstanding achievements in the field of science and engineering, new technologies appear at an accelerated pace, replace previous innovations, force as actively as possible to implement innovations in the company activity.
   Innovations coming to logistics are mainly the result of direct customer requests (reactive model), not proactive innovative activity of the companies. The general problem for introducing innovations is lack of understanding of the innovations implementation processes, lack of special knowledge and competences of the managerial personnel, incomprehensibility of the prospects for such implementation.
   The results of the study can be useful for the scholars who research logistics innovations, as well as for the managerial staff responsible for strategic development, implementing innovations, managing logistics activities of the companies.
   The perspectives for further research are more in-depth analysis of the prospects for using some of the latest technologies in structure of the logistic process; studying managerial experience of the leading companies in creating pilot projects for the use of various innovations in logistics.