DE Attribute based encryption (ABE); cloud service provider (CSP); mobile
   cloud computing (MCC); privacy preservation; trust management
ID ATTRIBUTE-BASED ENCRYPTION; MECHANISM
AB Mobile Cloud Computing (MCC) is getting growing interest due to its wide applicability in variety of social, industrial, and commercial mobile applications. Mobile and smart devices can share complex computational operations with Cloud Service Providers (CSPs). It also provides storage, access polices enforcement, and security operations. In many cases, CSP requires services from crowd contributors CCs for data collection, sharing, and mobile application support. It requires trust management for CCs to guard against malicious CCs and ensure security and privacy of data. However, end users or data requesters also demand reliable security solutions for sharing their data or accessing data from unknown CCs. To ensure strong security, mobile devices are not computationally feasible to perform complex cryptographic operations for desired privacy. To resolve these issues, we propose Reputation-aware Trust and Privacy Preservation scheme for MCC. In first phase, we deal with the trust management by utilizing reputation aware selection of CCs and leverage cloud services where CSP maintains trust score for CCs and data requesters. In second phase, we manage privacy preservation by using our proposed Anonymous Secure-shell Ciphertext-policy Attribute Based Encryption (AS-CABE). We have also proposed a hybrid policy tree mechanism for dynamic attribute selection used for security solutions and key management. Next, an anonymous secure shell is maintained between the CCs and the crowd servers to ensure registration after approval from trusted authority. In the similar vein, we propose outsourced encryption and decryption mechanism for mobiles that further utilize encryption and decryption service providers for complex operations. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first one to deal with the trust issues of data requester and privacy concerns of CCs and users both at the same time. After that, we have presented the security analysis to analyze AS-CABE against security attacks. Finally, the results are presented that ensure the supremacy of our proposed scheme as compared to counterparts in terms of reputation score, storage, computation, trust, resilience, encryption, and decryption time.