DE Internet-of-Things; big data; interoperability; sleep monitoring; health
   monitoring; open data; fog computing; cloud computing
ID APNEA-HYPOPNEA SYNDROME; DEATH
AB Obtrusive sleep apnea (OSA) is one of the most important sleep disorders because it has a direct adverse impact on the quality of life. Intellectual deterioration, decreased psychomotor performance, behavior, and personality disorders are some of the consequences of OSA. Therefore, a real-time monitoring of this disorder is a critical need in healthcare solutions. There are several systems for OSA detection. Nevertheless, despite their promising results, these systems not guiding their treatment. For these reasons, this research presents an innovative system for both to detect and support of treatment of OSA of elderly people by monitoring multiple factors such as sleep environment, sleep status, physical activities, and physiological parameters as well as the use of open data available in smart cities. Our system architecture performs two types of processing. On the one hand, a pre-processing based on rules that enables the sending of real-time notifications to responsible for the care of elderly, in the event of an emergency situation. This pre-processing is essentially based on a fog computing approach implemented in a smart device operating at the edge of the network that additionally offers advanced interoperability services: technical, syntactic, and semantic. On the other hand, a batch data processing that enables a descriptive analysis that statistically details the behavior of the data and a predictive analysis for the development of services, such as predicting the least polluted place to perform outdoor activities. This processing uses big data tools on cloud computing. The performed experiments show a 93.3% of effectivity in the air quality index prediction to guide the OSA treatment. The system's performance has been evaluated in terms of latency. The achieved results clearly demonstrate that the pre-processing of data at the edge of the network improves the efficiency of the system.