DE Medical; Errors; Competitive advantage; Electronic Medical Records; Nano
   Medicine; Quality of healthcare
ID HEALTH-CARE; PHYSICIANS; SYSTEMS; IMPLEMENTATION; SETTINGS; BARRIERS
AB Purpose The purpose of this paper is to present the findings of a research study conducted to find the perceptions of medical professionals about reduction in medical errors using electronic medical records (EMRs). It presents the relationship between EMR use in medical facilities and the reduction in medical errors. The use of EMR can lead to competitive advantages in the health-care environment.
   Design/methodology/approach This paper is based upon the perceptions of 99 medical professionals who use EMR in their practice in Arizona, USA.
   Findings This paper presents the medical professionals who use EMR which reduces medical errors, wrong site surgery, improper dosage delivery to a patient, wrong medication, etc. by 50-60 per cent.
   Research limitations/implications This paper is limited to perceived reductions in medical errors because the actual number of errors is either unavailable or medical professionals are unwilling to provide. Future research should seek conducting database searches to find medical malpractice lawsuits, unexpected costs or any reference to quantifying losses because of medical errors. Once the expenses are reported, relating to medical malpractice legal costs with the cost of investing in EMR system would prove an excellent observational study.
   Practical implications Medical professionals, medical facilities and patients should be aware of the impact EMRs have on the healthcare provided as well as the safety of patients enabled by the EMRs.
   Social implications Health-care industry is operating in a crisis mode and before it turns chaotic, there needs to be a consistent product used by every health-care organization or practice. EMRs can automatically update patients' information that is required on a routine basis via different computing systems such as cloud, minimizing the need for information technology professionals to handle the issues. This leads to reduced cost, increased efficiency, effectiveness and better management of the patients' health and wellness outcomes, with perceived reduction in medical errors.
   Originality/value The value of this research report is to provide the various features EMR offers and how it helps to reduce medical mistakes that help in avoiding repetition of different tests, incorrect dosage delivery and interaction of various medicines a patient is taking.