DE Digital Rights Managements in Large and Heterogonous Cloud Solutions;
   Fog Computing; Content Security; Distributed Access Control; HealthCare
   Data Provenance
ID USAGE CONTROL; PRIVACY; WATERMARKING; INTERNET; TECHNOLOGIES; TAXONOMY;
   DESIGN; SYSTEM; THINGS; SCHEME
AB Over the past few years, the cloud based storage providers such as Google drive, OneDrive, Box and Dropbox are increasingly being used to store users personal profile based data, which users could share over cloud storage devices. Immediately, the users data leaves the user premises and enters the cloud storage, the user has lost all the control over its data, and even when that data is further shared for the purposes of collaboration. Digital rights management (DRM) for Content hosted in Cloud based storage covers technologies related devices that protects the digital assets stored in cloud by enforcing the permission regulator, and when the data is in collaboration. This is important to protect healthcare (Fiaz, M., et al., 2019. Social media news classification in healthcare communication. Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, 9(6), pp.1215-1223; Irfan, R., et al., 2019. Ontology learning in text mining for handling big data in healthcare systems. Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, 9(4), pp.649-661; lkram Ullah, L. and Ali Shariq, I., 2019. A special section on effectiveness of search engine and social networking data in healthcare systems. Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, 9(4), pp.647-648; Preethi, P. and Asokan, R., 2019. A high secure medical image storing and sharing in cloud environment using hex code cryptography methodsecure genius. Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, 9(7), pp.1337-1345; Shahzad, B., et al., 2017. Finding healthcare issues with search engine queries and social network data. International Journal of Semantic Web and Information System, 13(1), pp.48-62; Saleem, K., et al., 2015. Human-oriented design of secure machine-to-machine communication system for e-Healthcare society. Computers in Human Behaviour, 51, pp.977-985.) data from being misused by authorized and unauthorized entities. To implement DRM in cloud, these Authors have proposed encryption based solution. Due to the distributed nature of cloud it is suitable for the real time data transportation. However, DRM process requires performance that is close to real time. This paper summarized the current state of the research in Digital Rights Management and leveraged Fog computing in DRM. This is to meet the new performance requirements for next-generation distribution networks, in terms of performance metrics, such as energy consumption, traffic delay, and network throughput, as required by in large and heterogonous Cloud solutions (Preethi, P. and Asokan, R., 2019. A high secure medical image storing and sharing in cloud environment using hex code cryptography methodsecure genius. Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, 9(7), pp.1337-1345.) as data storage system.