DE Cloud computing; Internet of Things; Accidents; Computer architecture;
   Detectors; Automobiles; Edge computing; Cloud computing; fog computing;
   Internet of Things (IoT); network functions virtualization (NFV);
   Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)
AB Cloud computing, despite its inherent advantages (e.g., resource efficiency), still faces several challenges. The wide area network used to connect the cloud to end users could cause high latency, which may not be tolerable for some applications, especially Internet-of-Things (IoT) applications. Fog computing can reduce this latency by extending the traditional cloud architecture to the edge of the network and by enabling the deployment of some application components on fog nodes. Application providers use Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) to provision (i.e., develop, deploy, manage, and orchestrate) applications in cloud. However, existing PaaS solutions (including IoT PaaS) usually focus on cloud and do not enable provisioning of applications with components spanning cloud and fog. Provisioning such applications requires novel functions, such as application graph generation, that are absent from existing PaaS. Furthermore, several functions offered by existing PaaS (e.g., publication/discovery) need to be significantly extended in order to fit in a hybrid cloud/fog environment. In this article, we propose a novel architecture for PaaS for hybrid cloud/fog system. It is IoT use case driven, and its applications' components are implemented as virtual network functions (VNFs) with execution sequences modeled as graphs with substructures, such as selection and loops. It automates the provisioning of applications with components spanning cloud and fog. In addition, it enables the discovery of existing cloud and fog nodes and generates application graphs. A proof of concept is built based on Cloudify open source. Feasibility is demonstrated by evaluating its performance when the PaaS modules and application components are placed in clouds and fogs in different geographical locations.