ID COMPUTED-TOMOGRAPHY; GENETIC-PARAMETERS; ATLAS SELECTION; BODY
   CONDITION; BONE SIZE; PREDICTION; WEIGHT; TRAITS; SEGMENTATION; IMAGES
AB Background The shape of pig scapula is complex and is important for sow robustness and health. To better understand the relationship between 3D shape of the scapula and functional traits, it is necessary to build a model that explains most of the morphological variation between animals. This requires point correspondence, i.e. a map that explains which points represent the same piece of tissue among individuals. The objective of this study was to further develop an automated computational pipeline for the segmentation of computed tomography (CT) scans to incorporate 3D modelling of the scapula, and to develop a genetic prediction model for 3D morphology. Results The surface voxels of the scapula were identified on 2143 CT-scanned pigs, and point correspondence was established by predicting the coordinates of 1234 semi-landmarks on each animal, using the coherent point drift algorithm. A subsequent principal component analysis showed that the first 10 principal components covered more than 80% of the total variation in 3D shape of the scapula. Using principal component scores as phenotypes in a genetic model, estimates of heritability ranged from 0.4 to 0.8 (with standard errors from 0.07 to 0.08). To validate the entire computational pipeline, a statistical model was trained to predict scapula shape based on marker genotype data. The mean prediction reliability averaged over the whole scapula was equal to 0.18 (standard deviation = 0.05) with a higher reliability in convex than in concave regions. Conclusions Estimates of heritability of the principal components were high and indicated that the computational pipeline that processes CT data to principal component phenotypes was associated with little error. Furthermore, we showed that it is possible to predict the 3D shape of scapula based on marker genotype data. Taken together, these results show that the proposed computational pipeline closes the gap between a point cloud representing the shape of an animal and its underlying genetic components.