DE Game theory; Mobile edge computing; Multiple resources allocation;
   Resource pricing
ID ACTIVE-SET ALGORITHM; OPTIMIZATION; MANAGEMENT; NETWORKS; RADIO
AB Mobile edge computing is a new paradigm that can enhance the computation capability of end devices and alleviate communication traffic loads during transmission. Mobile edge computing is highly useful for emerging resource-hungry mobile applications. However, a key challenge for mobile edge computing systems is multiple resources allocation between Mobile Edge Clouds (MECs) and End Users (EUs), especially for multiple heterogeneous MECs and EUs. To address this problem, we propose a Stackelberg game-based framework in which EUs and MECs act as followers and leaders, respectively. The proposed framework aims to compute a Stackelberg equilibrium solution in which each MEC achieves the maximum revenue while each EU obtains utility-maximized resources under budget constraints. We decompose the multiple resources allocation and pricing problem into a set of subproblems in which each subproblem only considers a single resource type. The Stackelberg game framework is constructed for each subproblem wherein each player (i.e., an EU) can selfishly maximize its utility by selecting an appropriate strategy in the strategy space. We prove the existence of the subgame Stackelberg equilibrium and develop algorithms to determine the Stackelberg equilibrium for each resource type, including an optimal demand computation algorithm, to determine the best resource demand strategy for an EU and an iterative algorithm to find an equilibrium price. The equilibrium solutions of all subgames constitute the equilibrium solution of the original problem. We also conduct simulation experiments of our game, such as numerical data for the Stackelberg equilibrium, numerical data for the convergence of the Stackelberg equilibrium, and numerical data as the system size increases. Finally, we demonstrate that an EU with idle resources can play the role of an MEC. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.