DE Trust model; Fog computing; Fuzzy neural networks; Security certified
   products; Weighted weakest link
ID ALGORITHM; SECURITY; INTERNET
AB Purpose Trust is one of the main pillars of many communication and interaction domains. Computing is no exception. Fog computing (FC) has emerged as mitigation of several cloud computing limitations. However, selecting a trustworthy node from the fog network still presents serious challenges. This paper aims to propose an algorithm intended to mitigate the trust and the security issues related to selecting a node of a fog network. Design/methodology/approach The proposed model/algorithm is based on two main concepts, namely, machine learning using fuzzy neural networks (FNNs) and the weighted weakest link (WWL) algorithm. The crux of the proposed model is to be trained, validated and used to classify the fog nodes according to their trust scores. A total of 2,482 certified computing products, in addition to a set of nodes composed of multiple items, are used to train, validate and test the proposed model. A scenario including nodes composed of multiple computing items is designed for applying and evaluating the performance of the proposed model/algorithm. Findings The results show a well-performing trust model with an accuracy of 0.9996. Thus, the end-users of FC services adopting the proposed approach could be more confident when selecting elected fog nodes. The trained, validated and tested model was able to classify the nodes according to their trust level. The proposed model is a novel approach to fog nodes selection in a fog network. Research limitations/implications Certainly, all data could be collected, however, some features are very difficult to have their scores. Available techniques such as regression analysis and the use of the experts have their own limitations. Experts might be subjective, even though the author used the fuzzy group decision-making model to mitigate the subjectivity effect. A methodical evaluation by specialized bodies such as the security certification process is paramount to mitigate these issues. The author recommends the repetition of the same study when data form such bodies is available. Originality/value The novel combination of FNN and WWL in a trust model mitigates uncertainty, subjectivity and enables the trust classification of complex FC nodes. Furthermore, the combination also allowed the classification of fog nodes composed of diverse computing items, which is not possible without the WWL. The proposed algorithm will provide the required intelligence for end-users (devices) to make sound decisions when requesting fog services.