DE Photoelectric Hybrid Interconnection Architecture; Cloud Computing;
   Optical Circuit Switching; Reliability Topology; Data Processing
   Platform
AB Data processing platform is the core support platform of cloud computing. The use of electric interconnection architecture will increase the complexity of network topology, while optical interconnection architecture is ideal, so cloud computing platform based on optical interconnection has become a research hotspot. The distributed optical interconnection architecture of cloud computing data processing platform is focused on. Combining the hybrid mechanism of optical circuit switching and electric packet switching, it can meet a variety of traffic requirements. Meanwhile, it improves the switching mechanism, communication strategy, and router structure. Moreover, considering that the hybrid optoelectronic interconnection architecture can improve the network delay and throughput, but there is still a problem of network consumption. Combined with the network characteristics of the data processing platform (wireless mesh structure) of cloud computing, the network topology algorithm is studied, and the relationship between the topology and the maximum number of allocable channels is analyzed. Furthermore, the equation of topological reliability calculation is defined, and the optimization model of topological design is proposed, according to which the data processing platform of cloud computing is further optimized under the photoelectric hybrid interconnection architecture. During the experiment, before topology optimization, by changing the message length, it is found that adding optical circuit switching can help achieving large capacity and new type of transmission, and can effectively reduce the time delay. After topology optimization structure is adopted, the photoelectric hybrid-data processing platform of cloud computing without topology optimization is compared. It is found that under different reliability constraints, the throughput and end-to-end delay of the network are significantly improved, which proves that the data processing platform of cloud computing based on the photoelectric hybrid interconnection architecture is a feasible cloud computing platform.