DE Elastic optical network (EON); Routing; Spectrum allocation; Improved;
   Tradeoff-RnI algorithm; Blocking probability
ID ASSIGNMENT; MODULATION
AB With the rapid development of services such as mobile Internet, high-definition video, and cloud computing, users' bandwidth requirements are increasing, and the demand for bandwidth granularity is becoming more diverse. In order to solve this problem, the researchers proposed the concept of elastic optical networks. The Elastic optical network adopts the flexible grid transmission mode, which can flexibly allocate spectrum resources while meeting high bandwidth and diversity requirements. Considering the modulation, routing and spectrum allocation (RMSA) of modulation mode selection on different paths is an extremely important problem in elastic optical networks. This paper presents a RMSA algorithm for Elastic Optical Networks with a Tradeoff between consumed resources and interval with boundary (Tradeoff-RnI). For a connection, the amount of resources consumed (R) and the interval between the spectrum blocks and the boundary (I) are indicators that need to be minimized. For these two indicators, the RMSA problem is first modeled as a multi-objective optimization model, and then a linear combination alpha R+ (1-alpha) I of R and I is designed. The target RMSA algorithm takes a compromise between R and I. Simulation and comparative analysis of the Tradeoff-RnI algorithm in 24-node US network (UNB24) and a 14-node North American network (NSF-Net). The results show that at low traffic density, the smaller the value of alpha, the lower the blocking rate. As the density of services increases, the value of alpha also to increase, the lower the blocking rate can be guaranteed. Finally, compared with the existing better methods, the algorithm proposed in this paper has a lower blocking rate. The simulation results show that the Tradeoff-RnI algorithm has a much lower connection request blocking rate than the First-Last Fit algorithm and the Block-Assignment algorithm.