DE smart campus; internet of things; cloud computing; facilities
   management; sustainable practices
AB In recent times, smart cities and sustainable development have drawn significant research attention. Among developed and developing countries, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has been at the forefront in becoming an incubator for smart cities; in particular, it has placed some efforts in the education sector by transforming the traditional campus into a Smart Campus. As the term Smart Campus attracts professionals and academics from multiple disciplines, and the technology keeps intervening in every aspect of life, it becomes inevitable for the Smart Campus to take place and deploy the future vision of smart cities. As a first step to achieve this vision, it is very important to develop a clear understanding of what is a Smart Campus. To date, there is still no clear perception of what a Smart Campus would look like, or what are the main components that can form a Smart Campus. Therefore, the objective of this research is to use the set of comprehensive criteria to identify what it is perceived to be a Smart Campus and evaluate these criteria from the stakeholders' perception. The main criteria are defined from the literature review, and a case study is conducted on the American University of Sharjah campus stakeholders (faculty, students, management, and Information Technology (IT)) to assess the designated criteria. This exploratory research relies on both qualitative and quantitative methods to perform the analysis, taking into consideration the perceptions of students, faculty, and IT service providers. Finally, having defined and evaluated the criteria that underpin the Smart Campus framework, a set of recommendations are drawn to guide the utilization of a Smart Campus within higher education settings. This research opens the doors for future studies to gain a deeper insight into the type of decisions that need to be made to transform a traditional campus to a Smart Campus.