DE VM consolidation; Host overload detection; Multiple regression; Single
   factors; Multiple factors
ID CLOUD DATA CENTERS; DYNAMIC CONSOLIDATION
AB Cloud computing data centers are growing rapidly in both number and capacity to meet the increasing demands for highly-responsive computing and massive storage. Such data centers consume enormous amounts of electrical energy resulting in high operating costs and carbon dioxide emissions. The reason for this extremely high energy consumption is not just the quantity of computing resources and the power inefficiency of hardware, but rather lies in the inefficient usage of these resources. VM consolidation involves live migration of VMs hence the capability of transferring a VM between physical servers with a close to zero down time. It is an effective way to improve the utilization of resources and increase energy efficiency in cloud data centers. VMconsolidation consists of host overload/ underload detection, VMselection and VM placement. Most of the current VM consolidation approaches apply either heuristic-based techniques, such as static utilization thresholds, decision-making based on statistical analysis of historical data; or simply periodic adaptation of the VM allocation. Most of those algorithms rely on CPU utilization only for host overload detection. In this paper we propose using hybrid factors to enhance VM consolidation. Specifically we developed a multiple regression algorithm that uses CPU utilization, memory utilization and bandwidth utilization for host overload detection. The proposed algorithm, Multiple Regression Host Overload Detection (MRHOD), significantly reduces energy consumption while ensuring a high level of adherence to Service Level Agreements (SLA) since it gives a real indication of host utilization based on three parameters (CPU, Memory, Bandwidth) utilizations instead of one parameter only (CPU utilization). Through simulations we show that our approach reduces power consumption by 6 times compared to single factor algorithms using random workload. Also using PlanetLab workload traces we show that MRHOD improves the ESV metric by about 24% better than other single factor regression algorithms (LR and LRR). Also we developed Hybrid Local Regression Host Overload Detection algorithm (HLRHOD) that is based on local regression using hybrid factors. It outperforms the single factor algorithms. (C) 2017 Production and hosting by Elsevier B. V. on behalf of Faculty of Computers and Information, Cairo University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license.