DE Cloud computing; Workload scheduling; Big data; Optimization; Virtual
   clustering; Throughput
ID ALGORITHM
AB Workload scheduling in cloud computing is currently an active research field. Scheduling plays an important role in cloud computing performance, especially when the platform is used for big data analysis and as less predictable workloads dynamically enter the clouds. Finding the optimized scheduling solution with different parameters in different environments is still a challenging issue. In dynamic environments such as cloud, scheduling strategies should feature rapid altering to be able to adapt more easily to the changes in input workloads. However, achieving an optimized solution is an important issue, which has a trade-off with the speed of finding the solution. In this article, an ordinal optimization method is proposed that considers the volume of workloads, load balancing and the volume of exchanged messages among virtual clusters, considering the replications. The algorithm in the present paper is based on ordinal optimization (OO) and evolutionary OO. In any time periods, a criterion is calculated to determine the similarity of workloads in two-consequence time periods, which is appropriate for timely changes in the scheduling procedure. In this paper, considering more than one parameter, a proper scheduling would be created for each time period. This scheduler is an organization for the number of virtual machines for each virtual cluster, but if there is a desirable similarity between workloads of two-consequence time periods, this procedure would be ignored. The results show that a more optimized solution is obtained in comparison with the rated methods, such as blind pink, OO, Monte Carlo and eOO in a reasonable time. The suggested method is flexible and it is possible to change the weight ratio of the proposed criteria in different environments to be consistent with different environmental conditions. The results show that proposed method achieved up to 28% performance improvement in comparison with eOO.