DE Mobile device; Mobile cloud computing; Computation offloading; Selective
   offloading; Hotspots; Optimization
AB Although mobile devices have been considerably upgraded to more powerful terminals, yet their lightness feature still impose intrinsic limitations in their computation capability, storage capacity and battery lifetime. With the ability to release and augment the limited resources of mobile devices, mobile cloud computing has drawn significant research attention allowing computations to be offloaded and executed on remote resourceful infrastructure. Nevertheless, circumstances like mobility, latency, applications execution overload and mobile device state; any can affect the offloading decision, which might dictate local execution for some tasks and remote execution for others. We present in this article a novel system model for computations offloading which goes beyond existing works with smart centralized, selective, and optimized approach. The proposition consists of (1)hotspots selection mechanism to minimize the overhead of the offloading evaluation process yet without jeopardizing the discovery of the optimal processing environment of tasks, (2)a multi-objective optimization model that considers adaptable metrics crucial for minimizing device resource usage and augmenting its performance, and (3)a tailored centralized decision maker that uses genetics to intelligently find the optimal distribution of tasks. The scalability, overhead and performance of the proposed hotspots selection mechanism and hence its effect on the decision maker and tasks dissemination are evaluated. The results show its ability to notably reduce the evaluation cost while the decision maker was able in turn to maintain optimal dissemination of tasks. The model is also evaluated and the experiments prove its competency over existing models with execution speedup and significant reduction in the CPU usage, memory consumption and energy loss. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.