DE edge computing; micro data centers; VNF placement; time restricted NF
ID CLOUD
AB Featured Application
   Mapping of service function chains containing low-delay demanding virtual network functions into mixed micro data center/cloud data center edge computing scenarios, optimizing a multi-parameter cost.
   The edge computing paradigm, allowing the location of network services close to end users, defines new network scenarios. One of them considers the existence of micro data centers, with reduced resources but located closer to service requesters, to complement remote cloud data centers. This hierarchical and geo-distributed architecture allows the definition of different time constraints that can be taken into account when mapping services into data centers. This feature is especially useful in the Virtual Network Function (VNF) placement problem, where the network functions composing a Service Function Chain (SFC) may require more or less strong delay restrictions. We propose the ModPG (Modified Priority-based Greedy) heuristic, a VNF placement solution that weighs the latency, bandwidth, and resource restrictions, but also the instantiation cost of VNFs. ModPG is an improved solution of a previous proposal (called PG). Although both heuristics share the same optimization target, that is the reduction of the total substrate resource cost, the ModPG heuristic identifies and solves a limitation of the PG solution: the mapping of sets of SFCs that include a significant proportion of SFC requests with strong low-delay restrictions. Unlike PG heuristic performance evaluation, where the amount of SFC requests with strong low-delay restrictions is not considered as a factor to be analyzed, in this work, both solutions are compared considering the presence of 1%, 15%, and 25% of this type of SFC request. Results show that the ModPG heuristic optimizes the target cost similarly to the original proposal, and at the same time, it offers a better performance when a significant number of low-delay demanding SFC requests are present.