DE color-magnitude diagram; interstellar medium; Galactic solar
   neighborhoods; dark clouds; stellar reddening; interstellar extinction
ID INTERSTELLAR EXTINCTION LAW; TYCHO-2 CATALOG; MILKY-WAY; NEAREST
   KILOPARSEC; GIANT BRANCH; DATA RELEASE; OB STARS; EVOLUTION; DUST;
   ISOCHRONES
AB An improved version of the 3D stellar reddening map in a space with a radius of 1200 pc around the Sun and within 600 pc of the Galactic midplane is presented. As in the previous 2010 and 2012 versions of the map, photometry with an accuracy better than 0.05(m) in the J and Ks bands for more than 70 million stars from the 2MASS catalogue is used in the new version. However, the data reduction technique is considerably more complicated. As before, an analysis of the distribution of stars near the main-sequence turnoff on the (J - Ks)-Ks diagram, where they form a distribution maximum, provides a basis for the method. The shift of this maximum, i.e., the mode (J - Ks), along (J - Ks) and Ks, given the spatial variations of the mean dereddened color (J - Ks)(0) of these stars, is interpreted as a growth of the reddening with increasing distance. The main distinction of the new method is that instead of the fixed mean absolute magnitude, dereddened color, distance, and reddening for each cell, the individual values of these quantities are calculated for each star by iterations when solving the system of equations relating them. This has allowed one to increase the random accuracy of the map to 0.01(m) and its spatial resolution to 20 pc in coordinates and distance and to 1 degrees in longitude and latitude. Comparison with other reddening estimates for the same spatial cells and Gaia DR1 TGAS stars shows that the constructed map is one of the best maps for the space under consideration. Its systematic errors have been estimated to be sigma(E(J - Ks)) = 0.025(m) , or sigma(E(B - V)) = 0.04(m) . The main purpose of the map is to analyze the characteristics of Galactic structures, clouds, and cloud complexes. For this purpose, the reddening map within each spatial cell has also been computed by analyzing the reddening along each line of sight.