DE IoT; Multi-cloud; Service composition; Energy efficiency
ID INTERNET; EFFICIENT; CHALLENGES; SECURITY; THINGS
AB There has been a shift in research towards the convergence of the Internet-of-Things (IoT) and cloud computing paradigms motivated by the need for IoT applications to leverage the unique characteristics of the cloud. IoT acts as an enabler to interconnect intelligent and self-configurable nodes "things" to establish an efficient and dynamic platform for communication and collaboration. IoT is becoming a major source of big data, contributing huge amounts of streamed information from a large number of interconnected nodes, which have to be stored, processed, and presented in an efficient, and easily interpretable form. Cloud computing can enable IoT to have the privilege of a virtual resources utilization infrastructure, which integrates storage devices, visualization platforms, resource monitoring, analytical tools, and client delivery. Given the number of things connected and the amount of data generated, a key challenge is the energy efficient composition and interoperability of heterogeneous things integrated with cloud resources and scattered across the globe, in order to create an on-demand energy efficient cloud based IoT application. In many cases, when a single service is not enough to complete the business requirement; a composition of web services is carried out. These composed web services are expected to collaborate towards a common goal with large amount of data exchange and various other operations. Massive data sets have to be exchanged between several geographically distributed and scattered services. The movement of mass data between services influences the whole application process in terms of energy consumption. One way to significantly reduce this massive data exchange is to use fewer services for a composition, which need to be created to complete a business requirement. Integrating fewer services can result in a reduction in data interchange, which in return helps in reducing the energy consumption and carbon footprint.
   This paper develops a novel multi-cloud IoT service composition algorithm called (E2C2) that aims at creating an energy-aware composition plan by searching for and integrating the least possible number of IoT services, in order to fulfil user requirements. A formal user requirements translation and transformation modelling and analysis is adopted for the proposed algorithm. The algorithm was evaluated against four established service composition algorithms in multiple cloud environments (All clouds, Base cloud, Smart cloud, and COM2), with the results demonstrating the superior performance of our approach.