DE modernization; new technologies in mining; innovation in mining;
   technology map; mining cycle; mine life-cycle; mining R&D
AB It is vital for organizations and individual operations to have access to a platform with technology-related information to consider for further research and development. This paper presents a technology map that was created with the purpose of facilitating mine modernization through technological advancement throughout the mining lifecycle/cycle.
   To achieve this, a platform was created to represent the mining lifecycle that incorporates each of the mining phases, i.e. exploration, project evaluation, mine design, operations, closure, and post-closure phases. The constituent value drivers for each phase were then investigated and included. These covered the various focus areas within the mining cycle, such as the applicable sub-phases, processes, systems, activities, or specific challenges, that impact a mine's operation.
   Technologies, both physical and digital, with the potential to add value to these focus areas were then incorporated into the platform to create a technology map. This potential to add value, if applied or modified for application, was assessed on any combination of five factors, namely the ability to increase production, increase productivity, increase efficiency, improve safety, or reduce the risk of human error. The primary focus was on technologies currently classified as disruptive and/or exponential, e.g. internet of things, cloud computing, advanced robotics, genomics, 3D printing, and artificial Intelligence. Other emerging technologies were also investigated, such as automation, machine learning, renewable energy generation, energy storage, advanced materials, and more. Furthermore, selected innovative technologies adapted for or developed in mining were also investigated, as well as other new technologies in non-mining industries with potential to add value to mining. As such, a technology map was created that covers the entire lifecycle of a mining venture, which highlights technologies with the potential to add value to specific focus areas. This technology map may be applied to facilitate advances in technology for mine modernization.