DE Chain-wide traceability system; EPCIS (Electronic Product Code
   Information Services); EPCDS (Electronic Product Code Discovery
   Service); Cloud computing technology; RESTful web services
ID SUPPLY CHAIN; EPCIS; SERVICE
AB Chain-wide traceability systems conforming to the Electronic Product Code Information Services (EPCIS) standard which is a well-recognized global standard allow supply chain operators to digitally capture and directly access the traceability data within and across enterprises. Although recent studies proposed the cloud-based deployment of EPCIS-based traceability systems by which supply chain operators are likely to save their investment cost in IT infrastructure, resource utilization remains a major concern in cloud based deployment and those systems are required to deliver, optimal performance. In this research, we propose the RESTful Economic-Aggregating Discovery Service (RECO-ADS) model to improve the cost effectiveness of resource use of the EPCIS system, which runs in the cloud. In the proposed model, we select the ADS model as the query traceability data approach. We design the internal and centralized traceability systems to comply with the EPCIS specification and Electronic Product Code Discovery Service (EPCDS) deployed to the Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud business model. Moreover, we integrate the RESTful web service with the Interfaces of EPCIS and EPCDS traceability systems. The evaluation criteria to measure resource efficiency, including computing resources, data transfers, and response time, are provided. The RECO-ADS is compared with the conventional traceability models, Directory Service (DS), Query Relay (QR) and Aggregating Discovery Service (ADS), using the evaluation criteria. The comparison shows that the computing resources, which consist of the CPU and Memory percentages of EPCIS and EPCDS systems, are rather similar, whereas the total data transfer (kB/s) of RECO-ADS (661.97) was less than that of the DS (807.73), QR (794.80) and ADS (796.66) models by approximately 18.05%, 16.71%, and 16.91%, respectively. The response time of the RECO-ADS model was the shortest. Moreover, the design of the cache in the EPCDS repository in the RECO-ADS model yielded a reduced operational cost based on the performance evaluation. These findings improve on the cost-effective resource consumption in the IaaS cloud of not only the EPCIS system but also the EPCDS system. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.