DE Power system faults; Power system restoration; Cloud computing;
   Approximation algorithms; Servers; Schedules; Service continuity; power
   outage; cloud recovery; VM consolidation; energy-efficient scheduling;
   approximation algorithm; profit maximization
ID OF-THE-ART; SERVER; PERFORMANCE; ENERGY; COST
AB In cloud computing, it is crucial to maintain service continuity, while power outage is one of the most common and serious threats. To improve the resilience of cloud against power outage, a service provider usually deploys emergency energy supply (e.g., UPSs and generators) in a data center. When a power outage at a data center happens, the cloud service provider needs to make the operation decision on which subset of VMs to keep running and which servers to host such VMs to minimize its loss (or maximize its profit) using the emergency energy supply while the selected VMs are running in the affected data center until they are finished, migrated to other data centers, or normal power supply of the affected data center has been restored. No prior research has theoretically studied such a cloud service continuity problem under power outage. In this paper, we tackle this challenge and investigate the cloud service continuity problem. Specifically, we consider that a profit is associated with maintaining the continuity of a service, denoted as service continuity profit. Based on that we first formulate an optimization problem that aims to maximize the total profit subject to energy constrains. After showing the hardness of the problem, we focus on the design of approximation algorithms for solving the problem, where we consider two practical cases. In the first one with sufficient number of servers for re-provisioning, we develop a constant approximation algorithm of which the worst-case performance approaches the optimal solution within a constant factor (approximate to 4.5-6.4). In the second one, we consider the general case with limited number of servers, and we develop an approximation algorithm with an approximation ratio of around 5.7-8. By combining these two algorithms together, we can achieve both good worst-case performance and average performance. Simulation results demonstrate the efficiency in terms of maximizing the service continuity profit of the proposed algorithms.