DE Cloud Computing; IoT; Security; Privacy; Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)
ID INTERNET; CHALLENGES; INTEGRATION; THREATS; ISSUES; EDGE
AB The first impression of the term Cloud of Things (CoT) refers to the integration of cloud computing and the internet of things (IoT). Data generated by IoT devices need storage and processing infrastructure, cloud infrastructure provides storage as well as processing needs. CoT possesses similar challenges of security, lack of transparency, trust, and loss of controls as in cloud computing. Technology eases quickens the processing of information but holds numerous risks including hacking and confidentiality problems. The study proposes numerous solutions for the challenges of privacy trust, and security issues in CoT, these include anti-malware, firewall, intrusion prevention systems, and hardware authentication. Anti-malware encompasses software used to guard against viruses and spyware among other harmful applications, and barriers affecting CoT, CoT adoption, and assurance. The interpretive technique is proposed in order to evaluate the needs of adoption and barriers of CoT technology. The research shows that there exists a proportional relationship with cloud computing and the internet of things. Results show the most important factors that are influencing the adaptation of CoT are ubiquitous network access, cost reduction and flexibility of resources, utilization of resources and operational cost, while barriers are threat and attacks due to security issue, legal issues, service level agreements, Lack of Control over hardware & software, compliance with industry slandered. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) test Statistics is used to test the normality and reliability of the study. The result indicates the positive attitude towards use the CoT technology and important factors that are influencing the adaptation of CoT are ubiquitous network access, cost reduction and flexibility of resources, utilization of resources and operational cost.