DE Internet of Things; Remote monitoring; Healthcare; Assisted living;
   Graphical user interfaces; Clouds
ID HEALTH-CARE; ECG; SENSOR
AB Internet of Things (IoT) technologies have been applied to various fields such as manufacturing, automobile industry and healthcare. IoT-based healthcare has a significant impact on real-time remote monitoring of patients' health and consequently improving treatments and reducing healthcare costs. In fact, IoT has made healthcare more reliable, efficient, and accessible. Two major drawbacks which IoT suffers from can be expressed as: first, the limited battery capacity of the sensors is quickly depleted due to the continuous stream of data; second, the dependence of the system on the cloud for computations and processing causes latency in data transmission which is not accepted in real-time monitoring applications.
   This research is conducted to develop a real-time, secure, and energy-efficient platform which provides a solution for reducing computation load on the cloud and diminishing data transmission delay. In the proposed platform, the sensors utilize a state-of-the-art power saving technique known as Compressive Sensing (CS). CS allows sensors to retrieve the sensed data using fewer measurements by sending a compressed signal. In this framework, the signal reconstruction and processing are computed locally on a Heterogeneous Multicore Platform (HMP) device to decrease the dependency on the cloud. In addition, a framework has been implemented to control the system, set different parameters, display the data as well as send live notifications to medical experts through the cloud in order to alert them of any eventual hazardous event or abnormality and allow quick interventions. Finally, a case study of the system is presented demonstrating the acquisition and monitoring of the data for a given subject in real-time. The obtained results reveal that the proposed solution reduces 15.4% of energy consumption in sensors, that makes this prototype a good candidate for IoT employment in healthcare.