DE surveys; Galaxy: structure; radio lines: ISM; ISM: clouds; ISM:
   structure
ID INFRARED DARK CLOUD; GIANT MOLECULAR CLOUDS; MASSIVE STAR-FORMATION;
   KINEMATIC DISTANCE AMBIGUITY; PRINCIPAL COMPONENT ANALYSIS;
   RECONSTRUCTING CO MAPS; SOUTHERN MILKY-WAY; SPECTRAL-LINE DATA; H II
   REGIONS; PLANE SURVEY
AB Context. The origin and life-cycle of molecular clouds are still poorly constrained, despite their importance for understanding the evolution of the interstellar medium. Many large-scale surveys of the Galactic plane have been conducted recently, allowing for rapid progress in this field. Nevertheless, a sub-arcminute resolution global view of the large-scale distribution of molecular gas, from the diffuse medium to dense clouds and clumps, and of their relationship to the spiral structure, is still missing.
   Aims. We have carried out a systematic, homogeneous, spectroscopic survey of the inner Galactic plane, in order to complement the many continuum Galactic surveys available with crucial distance and gas-kinematic information. Our aim is to combine this data set with recent infrared to sub-millimetre surveys at similar angular resolutions.
   Methods. The SEDIGISM survey covers 78 deg(2) of the inner Galaxy (-60 degrees <= l <= 18 degrees, vertical bar b vertical bar <= 0.5 degrees) in the J = 2-1 rotational transition of (CO)-C-13. This isotopologue of CO is less abundant than (CO)-C-12 by factors up to 100. Therefore, its emission has low to moderate optical depths, and higher critical density, making it an ideal tracer of the cold, dense interstellar medium. The data have been observed with the SHFI single-pixel instrument at APEX. The observational setup covers the (CO)-C-13(2-1) and (CO)-O-18(2-1) lines, plus several transitions from other molecules.
   Results. The observations have been completed. Data reduction is in progress, and the final data products will be made available in the near future. Here we give a detailed description of the survey and the dedicated data reduction pipeline. To illustrate the scientific potential of this survey, preliminary results based on a science demonstration field covering -20 degrees <= l <= -18.5 degrees are presented. Analysis of the (CO)-C-13(2-1) data in this field reveals compact clumps, diffuse clouds, and filamentary structures at a range of heliocentric distances. By combining our data with data in the (1-0) transition of CO isotopologues from the ThrUMMS survey, we are able to compute a 3D realization of the excitation temperature and optical depth in the interstellar medium. Ultimately, this survey will provide a detailed, global view of the inner Galactic interstellar medium at an unprecedented angular resolution of similar to 30 ''.