DE Software quality; search-based software engineering; self-adaptive
   systems; machine learning; cloud computing; performance modeling
ID SIMULATION; MANAGEMENT; TOOLKIT
AB In the presence of scale, dynamism, uncertainty and elasticity, cloud software engineers faces several challenges when modeling Quality of Service (QoS) for cloud-based software services. These challenges can be best managed through self-adaptivity because engineers' intervention is difficult, if not impossible, given the dynamic and uncertain QoS sensitivity to the environment and control knobs in the cloud. This is especially true for the shared infrastructure of cloud, where unexpected interference can be caused by co-located software services running on the same virtual machine; and co-hosted virtual machines within the same physical machine. In this paper, we describe the related challenges and present a fully dynamic, self-adaptive and online QoS modeling approach, which grounds on sound information theory and machine learning algorithms, to create QoS model that is capable to predict the QoS value as output over time by using the information on environmental conditions, control knobs and interference as inputs. In particular, we report on in-depth analysis on the correlations of selected inputs to the accuracy of QoS model in cloud. To dynamically selects inputs to the models at runtime and tune accuracy, we design self-adaptive hybrid dual-learners that partition the possible inputs space into two sub-spaces, each of which applies different symmetric uncertainty based selection techniques; the results of sub-spaces are then combined. Subsequently, we propose the use of adaptive multi-learners for building the model. These learners simultaneously allow several learning algorithms to model the QoS function, permitting the capability for dynamically selecting the best model for prediction on the fly. We experimentally evaluate our models in the cloud environment using RUBiS benchmark and realistic FIFA 98 workload. The results show that our approach is more accurate and effective than state-of-the-art modelings.