DE TCP/IP Virtualized data centers; Energy-vs.-delay tradeoff; Dynamic
   resource; reconfiguration-consolidation; Saas cloud; Fog computing
ID RESOURCE-ALLOCATION; PERFORMANCE; FRAMEWORK
AB The emerging utilization of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Fog computing centers as an Internet virtual computing commodity is raising concerns over the energy consumptions of networked data centers for the support of delay-sensitive applications. In addition to the energy consumed by the servers, the energy wasted by the network devices that support TCP/IP reliable inter-Virtual Machines (VMs) connections is becoming a significant challenge. In this paper, we propose and develop a framework for the joint characterization and optimization of TCP/IP SaaS Fog data centers that utilize a bank of queues for increasing the fraction of the admitted workload. Our goal is two-fold: (i) we maximize the average workload admitted by the data center; and, (ii) we minimize the resulting networking-plus-computing average energy consumption. For this purpose, we exploit the Lyapunov stochastic optimization approach, in order to design and analyze an optimal (yet practical) online joint resource management framework, which dynamically performs: (i) admission control; (ii) dispatching of the admitted workload; (iii) flow control of the inter-VM TCP/IP connections; (iv) queue control; (v) up/down scaling of the processing frequencies of the instantiated VMs; and, (vi) adaptive joint consolidation of both physical servers and TCP/IP connections. The salient features of the resulting scheduler (e.g., the Q* scheduler) are that: (i) it admits distributed and scalable implementation; (ii) it provides deterministic bounds on the instantaneous queue backlogs; (iii) it avoids queue overflow phenomena; and, (iv) it effectively tracks the (possibly unpredictable) time fluctuations of the input workload, in order to perform joint resource consolidation without requiring any a priori information and/or forecast of the input workload. Actual energy and delay performances of the proposed scheduler are numerically evaluated and compared against the corresponding ones of some competing and state-of-the-art schedulers, under: (i) Fast - Giga - 10Giga Ethernet switching technologies; (ii) various settings of the reconfiguration-consolidation costs; and, (iii) synthetic, as well as real-world workloads. The experimental results support the conclusion that the proposed scheduler can achieve over 30% energy savings. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.