DE 2.5-D interposer; electronics packaging; excimer laser via; glass
   interposer; high-performance computing (HPC); multichip modules;
   semi-additive process (SAP)
AB Consumer demand for mobile services is expected to grow with the continued proliferation of connected devices including smartphones, wearables, and Internet of things. As a result, high-performance computing systems that support the core network and cloud infrastructures for these connected devices require unprecedented die-to-die bandwidth at low latency. To achieve next-generation performance requirements and to apply to commercial products, fundamental parameters for 2.5-D interposers are considered including: 1) high interconnect density at short interconnect length; 2) low power consumption; and 3) low packaging cost. The 2.5-D glass interposer described in this paper is superior to silicon interposer in cost and electrical performance, and to organic interposer in interconnect density. This paper describes a 2.5-D glass interposer as a ball grid array (BGA) package to achieve high bandwidth at low cost to improve bandwidth per unit watt signal power per unit dollar cost (BWF) compared to both silicon and organic interposers. Due to its high modulus and excellent surface finish, glass affords ultrafine line lithography to form high-density interconnects comparable to silicon, and the process described in this paper goes beyond silicon back-end-of-line processes by implementing a double-side semi-additive process (SAP) at increased copper layer thickness. This thicker metallization results in reduced conductor losses and improved bandwidth per channel compared to silicon. In addition, the low loss tangent of glass reduces dielectric losses in nets requiring through vias including clock distribution and high-speed off-package signals. Availability of glass in thin panel as well as in roll-to-roll formats beyond 500 mm in size reduces packaging cost compared to 300-mm wafer silicon interposer. The focus of this paper is on the integration of three enabling technologies: 1) advanced SAP for high-density redistribution layers (RDLs); 2) excimer laser ablation of RDL vias; and 3) fine-pitch thermocompression bonding with copper pillar die assembly-for a 2.5-D glass interposer at interconnect densities comparable to that of silicon to achieve terabit per second interdie bandwidth at highest BWF.