DE internet of medical things; cloud storage; access control; CP-ABE;
   traceability; verifiable outsourcing; user privacy protection
ID ATTRIBUTE-BASED ENCRYPTION
AB Recent developments in cloud computing allow data to be securely shared between users. This can be used to improve the quality of life of patients and medical staff in the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) environment. However, in the IoMT cloud environment, there are various security threats to the patient's medical data. As a result, security features such as encryption of collected data and access control by legitimate users are essential. Many studies have been conducted on access control techniques using ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption (CP-ABE), a form of attribute-based encryption, among various security technologies and studies are underway to apply them to the medical field. However, several problems persist. First, as the secret key does not identify the user, the user may maliciously distribute the secret key and such users cannot be tracked. Second, Attribute-Based Encryption (ABE) increases the size of the ciphertext depending on the number of attributes specified. This wastes cloud storage, and computational times are high when users decrypt. Such users must employ outsourcing servers. Third, a verification process is needed to prove that the results computed on the outsourcing server are properly computed. This paper focuses on the IoMT environment for a study of a CP-ABE-based medical data sharing system with key abuse prevention and verifiable outsourcing in a cloud environment. The proposed scheme can protect the privacy of user data stored in a cloud environment in the IoMT field, and if there is a problem with the secret key delegated by the user, it can trace a user who first delegated the key. This can prevent the key abuse problem. In addition, this scheme reduces the user's burden when decoding ciphertext and calculates accurate results through a server that supports constant-sized ciphertext output and verifiable outsourcing technology. The goal of this paper is to propose a system that enables patients and medical staff to share medical data safely and efficiently in an IoMT environment.