DE Photogrammetry; dam; UAS; flushing; validation
ID STRUCTURE-FROM-MOTION; DAMS; PHOTOGRAMMETRY; MANAGEMENT; RIVERS
AB We compute the volume of flushed sediments in a dam using photogrammetry-based multi-temporal surveys with an unmanned aerial system (UAS). Coping with sediments accumulation and erosion in reservoir is a living topic in modern hydraulics of dams, since the increase of sediment may reduce the reservoir capacity, endanger dam's stability, and represent an economical loss. As a result, a number of remedies can be considered, such as flushing or mechanical removal. To evaluate the performance of these operations, measuring the volume of removed sediments and their spatial distribution is important. Here, we show that photogrammetry from UASs represents a suitable solution to reckon the volume of removed sediments. The case study is the Fusino dam (Lombardia region, Northern Italy). Two surveys were performed, before and after sediment removal. In both cases, the flight has been planned with an average flight height equal to 65 m, leading to a mean ground sample distance (GSD) equal to 0.013 m. The 22 ground control points (GCP) used to adjust the photogrammetric block were measured with both global navigation satellite system (GNSS) and a total station. Each survey produced a cloud of about 40 million of points. Moreover, the digital surface model (DSM) produced by each photogrammetric flight has been validated with sample points measured with a robotic total station. Results show high consistency between computed DSMs and validation dataset, with a mean height difference equal, respectively, to 0.003 and -0.004 m considering the two different surveys, with a standard deviation around 0.05 m in both the cases. The volume of sediments flushed was estimated to be about 26,000 m(3), which represents about 2%-3% of the total reservoir capacity. We estimated also a 6% difference in terms of reservoir capacity between the present condition and the no-sediments condition.