DE Task analysis; Edge computing; Cloud computing; Delays; Servers;
   Processor scheduling; Heuristic algorithms; Dantzig-Wolfe decomposition;
   dynamic programming; edge computing; fog computing; vehicular networks
ID ENERGY
AB The Vehicle-as-a-Resource is an emerging concept that allows the exploitation of the vehicles' computational resources for the purpose of executing tasks offloaded by passengers, vehicles, or even an Internet-of-Things devices. This article revolves around a scenario where a roadside unit located at the edge of a hierarchical multitier edge computing subnetwork resorts to the utilization of idle vehicles computational resources through a fog-enabled substructure yielding a cost-effective computational task offloading solution. In this context, scheduling the offload of these tasks to the appropriate vehicles is a challenging problem that is subject to the interaction of major role-playing parameters. Among these parameters are the variability of vehicles availability and their computational power, the individual tasks' weighted priorities and their deadlines, the tasks required computational power as well as the required data to upload/download. This article proposes an infrastructure-assisted task scheduling scheme where the roadside unit receives computational tasks from different sources and schedules these tasks over a computationally capable vehicle residing within the roadside unit's range. The aim is to maximize the weighted number of admitted tasks while considering the constraints mentioned above. Compared to other works, this article broaches a more realistic scenario by considering a more accurate computational task and system model. Our system considers both the latency and throughput of task accomplishments by maximizing the weighted number of admitted tasks while at the same time respecting the tasks accompanied deadlines. Both radio and computational resources are part of the optimization problem. After proving the NP-hardness of the scheduling problem, we formulated the problem as a mixed-integer linear program. A Dantzig-Wolfe decomposition algorithm is proposed which yields to a master program solvable by the Barrier algorithm and subproblems solved optimally with a polynomial-time dynamic programming approach. Thorough numerical analysis and simulations are conducted in order to verify and assert the validity, correctness, and effectiveness of our approach compared to branch and bound and greedy algorithms.