DE DVB; digital video broadcasting; HbbTV; hybrid broadcast broadband; MEC;
   mobile edge computing; MNO; mobile network operator; NFV; network
   function virtualization; RAN; radio access network; SDN; software
   defined network; VLC; visible light communication
ID CORE NETWORK; MOBILE
AB Fifth-Generation (5G) mobile networks are expected to perform according to the stringent performance targets assigned by standardization committees. Therefore, significant changes are proposed to the network infrastructure to achieve the expected performance levels. Network Function Virtualization, cloud computing and Software Defined Networks are some of the main technologies being utilised to ensure network design, with optimum performance and efficient resource utilization. The aforementioned technologies are shifting the network architecture into service-based rather device-based architecture. In this regard, we introduce Media Casting as a service (MCaaS) and IoRL-Cache service (IoRL-C). The former is a service that proposed as an integration solution between the broadcasting industry and Mobile Network Operators, while the latter proposed as a solution for improving IoRL small-cells caching efficiency. IoRL is an emerging 5G small-cell for indoor environment, which utilises mmWave and Visible Light Communications (VLC) as access technologies, while exploiting Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualisation (NFV) technologies to offer flexible and intelligent services to its clients. In this paper, we introduce MCaaS and IoRL-C services, we perform simulation work for testing IoRL-C as a proof of concept for both services. The network was simulated using OMNeT++ simulation tool, and we validated the services efficiency by comparing their performance with traditional deployments. We have also examined the cache service performance at different link lengths, and found out that IoRL-C is able to support IoRL small-cells with more than 50+Km separation distances.