DE Cloud computing; Stochastic processes; Computational modeling; Resource
   management; Vehicle dynamics; Energy consumption; Task analysis;
   Computation capacity scaling; cloud; edge computing; energy efficiency;
   service risk probability; stochastic workload; workload allocation
ID OPTIMIZATION; MANAGEMENT; MIGRATION; MODEL
AB Energy efficiency is one of the most important concerns in cloud/edge computing systems. A major benefit of the Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling (DVFS) technique is that a Virtual Machine (VM) can dynamically scale its computation frequency on an on-demand basis, which is helpful in reducing the energy cost of computation when dealing with stochastic workloads. In this paper, we study the joint workload allocation and computation resource configuration problem in distributed cloud/edge computing. We propose a new energy consumption model that considers the stochastic workloads for computation capacity reconfiguration-enabled VMs. We define Service Risk Probability (SRP) as the probability a VM fails to process the incoming workloads in the current time slot, and we study the energy-SRP tradeoff problem in single VM. Without specifying any distribution of the workloads, we prove that, theoretically there exists an optimal SRP that achieves minimal energy cost, and we derive the closed form of the condition to achieve this minimal energy point. We also derive the closed form for computing the optimal SRP when the workloads follow a Gaussian distribution. We then study the joint workload allocation and computation frequency configuration problem for multiple distributed VMs scenario, and we propose solutions to solve the problem for both Gaussian and unspecified distributions. Our performance evaluation results on both synthetic and real-world workload trace data demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model. The closeness between the simulation results and the analytical results prove that our proposed method can achieve lower energy consumption compared with fixed computation capacity configuration methods.