DE Wireless sensor network; Cloud environment; Routing; Energy efficiency;
   Quality of service; Smart duty cycle scheduling protocol
ID MAC PROTOCOL
AB One of the fast-growing, tremendous and highly demanding networks from various emerging applications like military, healthcare industry, airport and forests is wireless sensor network. These applications are incorporated into the cloud in order to utilize various energy resources, high performance computing and massive storage structure. Many challenges should be resolved in sensor cloud environment like security, continuous data transmission, power management and energy efficiency. Some of the earlier research works anticipated data compression method for energy conservation and encryption decryption algorithms for secured data transmission. Compressing different data from various sources is difficult which degrades the performance of the data transmission and encryption decryption has taken more computational time and complexity which raises the need for energy efficiently and secured data transmission schemes. Hence, this paper is motivated to solve the major issues in sensor cloud, energy efficiency, data security and maintenance and thereby improving the quality of service (QoS). A secured energy efficient framework (SEEF) is designed for secured data transmission and maintenance which comprises of various phases like a cross layer designed for power and traffic management, node and route investigation for security and dynamic optimal routing for improving the QoS using flower pollination algorithm. A smart duty cycle scheduling protocol (SDCS) is proposed to increase the lifetime of the network by avoiding data redundancy, transmission conflicts, traffic conflicts and energy reduction in the network. The end to end delay is reduced by reducing the interval between the packets and packet delivery ratio is improved by avoiding packet loss. SEEF is simulated in NS2 simulator and the results are verified. The performance shows that the throughput and packet delivery ratio is improved up to 0.57 MB/s and 96% respectively. The end to end delay and the energy consumed is reduced to 0.69 s and 0.076 J respectively. From the comparison it is identified that SEEF can increase the overall performance in sensor cloud.