DE Function-distributed mobility management; Future industrial internet;
   Proxy mobile IP; Software-defined networks; Smart factory networking
ID 5G; IMPLEMENTATION; OPTIMIZATION
AB With the proliferation of mobile devices, Internet of Things (IoT), and edge commuting, and the advancement of ICT, mobile computing has become the norm, rather than the exception. Current network technologies and distributed system architectures make it difficult to meet users' network trace, and incur high processing costs. To solve this problem, this paper proposes new functional distributed mobility management technologies for the application of the industrial future Internet. This implies the need for an efficient distributed mobility system to apply 5G or TSN (time sensitive network) technologies to the future industry Internet. Thus, it is assumed that various analytical techniques will be applied to provide superior performance in cost analyses, such as location update costs and packet transport costs. In this paper, we propose a cost-effective function-distribution mobility management system that will build a future industrial Internet to meet the needs and convenience of users. It also uses computer simulation to create the mobility provision system, and the electiveness of the cost analysis usage and rental management function models. Software-defined networking in smart factories (SFs) enables them to easily adapt the communication network to changing requirements. Similar to cloud-based systems, such SFs could be seen as producing clusters that could be rented and configured as needed. To achieve the required flexibility, the SF network uses software defined networking combined with network function virtualization. Despite the fact that the technology is not yet ready for deployment in today's manufacturing networks, a novel network architecture for SFs based on software-defined networking and network virtualization is here proposed, to support smart services, especially for Industry 4.0.