DE Cloud manufacturing; Industrial revolution; Diffusion of innovation;
   Technology-organization-environment; Technology acceptance model;
   Advanced manufacturing technology
ID OF-THE-ART; COMPUTING ADOPTION; INFORMATION-TECHNOLOGY; USER ACCEPTANCE;
   INNOVATION-DIFFUSION; BUSINESS MODEL; DETERMINANTS; IMPLEMENTATION;
   PERFORMANCE; SERVITIZATION
AB Purpose Cloud manufacturing (CMfg) has emerged as a service-oriented paradigm that enables modularization and on-demand servitization of resources in the context of manufacturing. The plethora of studies on CMfg has led the authors to investigate its implementation, as most of the literature is theoretical or simulation-based. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the reality of the CMfg concept in terms of adoption. Design/methodology/approach A tri-theoretic model is developed using the technology adoption model, diffusion of innovation and technology-organization-environment for hypotheses development. Data are collected from 218 US manufacturers. The data analysis approaches are partial least squares structural equation modeling, while data visualization is done to further analysis. Findings The study shows that most of the US manufacturers are reluctant to adopt the CMfg. Further, the statistical findings imply that competitive pressure, top management support, compatibility and trialability play a vital role in its adoption. The success of the CMfg adoption relies on the implementation of the pre-installation stage and the top management decisions. Practical implications For practitioners, the study provides insight on how to supervise the CMfg platform implementation to improve the adoption process. For researchers and academicians, the significance of trialability provides a wide range of research topics on developing the CMfg trials and models. Originality/value This paper highlights the concerns of manufacturers about the pros and cons of the CMfg adoption, as this topic has not been given due attention in the literature. This will help to align future research directions according to market concerns and mitigating the factors that are hindering its adoption.