DE Conditional attributes; Multifactor authentication; One time token;
   Privacy preservation; Suppression method
ID PROTOCOL
AB Security and privacy-preservation is a significant problem to be solved in the cloud when accessing data services. The existing authentication technique verifies the client identity using single authentication factor. But, the performance of conventional single factor authentication technique is not efficient since the client's sensitive information is highly intrusive and exposed to third parties. In order to overcome these limitations, a novel multifactor authentication called Suppressed K-Anonymity Multi-Factor Authentication Based SchmidtSamoa Cryptography (SKMA-SC) technique is proposed. The SKMA-SC technique comprises three key processes namely registration, authentication and data access. During the registration phase, the clients register their personal identification information's and securely stores it in the cloud server (CS) with support of suppression method. This helps for SKMA-SC technique to preserve the client sensitive information's from adversaries or third parties in a cloud environment. During the authentication phase, SKMA-SC technique validates the identity of clients by considering multifactor such as password, one-time token and conditional attributes. At last in the data access phase, SKMA-SC technique allows the clients to get requested data services when she or he is authorized by performing Schmidt-Samoa data encryption/decryption process. From that, SKMA-SC technique avoids illegal access from the unauthorized party over insecure communications in a cloud environment with a lower amount of time. Result analysis of SKMA-SC technique is carried out with the metrics authentication accuracy (AA), computational complexity (CC) and privacy-preserving rate (PPR) with different number of clients and cloud data. The experimental result proves that SKMA-SC technique enhances the PPR and lessens the CC of authentication as evaluated with state-of-the-art works.