DE cloud computing; serverless framework; Cloud GIS; geoportals;
   scalability; latency
ID INFORMATION
AB Several real-world applications involve the aggregation of physical features corresponding to different geographic and topographic phenomena. This information plays a crucial role in analyzing and predicting several events. The application areas, which often require a real-time analysis, include traffic flow, forest cover, disease monitoring and so on. Thus, most of the existing systems portray some limitations at various levels of processing and implementation. Some of the most commonly observed factors involve lack of reliability, scalability and exceeding computational costs. In this paper, we address different well-known scalable serverless frameworks i.e., Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda, Google Cloud Functions and Microsoft Azure Functions for the management of geospatial big data. We discuss some of the existing approaches that are popularly used in analyzing geospatial big data and indicate their limitations. We report the applicability of our proposed framework in context of Cloud Geographic Information System (GIS) platform. An account of some state-of-the-art technologies and tools relevant to our problem domain are discussed. We also visualize performance of the proposed framework in terms of reliability, scalability, speed and security parameters. Furthermore, we present the map overlay analysis, point-cluster analysis, the generated heatmap and clustering analysis. Some relevant statistical plots are also visualized. In this paper, we consider two application case-studies. The first case study was explored using the Mineral Resources Data System (MRDS) dataset, which refers to worldwide density of mineral resources in a country-wise fashion. The second case study was performed using the Fairfax Forecast Households dataset, which signifies the parcel-level household prediction for 30 consecutive years. The proposed model integrates a serverless framework to reduce timing constraints and it also improves the performance associated to geospatial data processing for high-dimensional hyperspectral data.