DE Mesh deformation; Moving mesh generation; MPI/OpenMP hybrid parallel
   computing; Parallel radial basis function interpolation; Unstructured
   hybrid grid
ID DELAUNAY GRAPH
AB An efficient MPI/OpenMP hybrid parallel Radial Basis Function (RBF) strategy for both continuous and discontinuous large-scale mesh deformation is proposed to reduce the computational cost and memory consumption. Unlike the conventional parallel methods in which all processors use the same surface displacement and implement the same operation, the present method employs different surface points sets and influence radius for each volume point movement, accompanied with efficient geometry searching strategy. The deformed surface points, also called Control Points (CPs), are stored in each processor. The displacement of spatial points is interpolated by using only 20-50 nearest control points, and the local influence radius is set to 5-20 times the maximum displacement of control points. To shorten the searching time for the nearest control point clouds, an Alternating Digital Tree (ADT) algorithm for 3D complex geometry is designed based on an iterative bisection technique. Besides, an MPI/OpenMP hybrid parallel approach is developed to reduce the memory cost in each High-Performance Computing (HPC) node for large-scale applications. Three 3D cases, including the ONERA-M6 wing and a commercial transport airplane standard model with up to 2.5 billion hybrid elements, are used to test the present mesh deformation method. The robustness and high parallel efficiency are demonstrated by a wing deflection case with a maximum bending angle of 45 degrees and more than 80% parallel efficiency with 1024 MPI processors. In addition, the availability for both continuous and discontinuous surface deformation is verified by interpolating the projecting displacement with opposite directions surface points to the spatial points. (C) 2020 Chinese Society of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Production and hosting by Elsevier Ltd.