DE cloud computing; NFV; resource allocation; workload prediction; mobile
   network
AB The problem of growth of the mobile data traffic and the number of services becomes global, moreover, volume and frequency of control traffic transmitted through the network are increasing, and therefore there is a need for its effective management to ensure the quality of service required by users and optimal use of mobile network resources. In such circumstances, the load on the server that is created in the process of establishing the connection and its serving has its considerations. Dynamic resource provisioning is a useful technique for handling the variations seen in communication systems workloads. Virtualization technology allows to implement this approach. An analytic model of a system would be attractive as it would be able to evaluate system characteristics under a wide range of conditions, and to be computed comparatively easily. It is also can incorporate numerical optimization techniques for system design. In the paper the problem of provisioning system design for virtualized network functions is solved. This paper presents a novel approach to correctly allocate resources in data centers, such that SLA violations and energy consumption are minimized. Proposed approach first analyzes historical workload traces to identify long-term patterns that establish a "base" workload. It then employs two techniques to dynamically allocate capacity: predictive provisioning and reactive provisioning. The combination of predictive and reactive provisioning achieves a significant improvement in meeting SLAs, conserving energy, and reducing provisioning costs. A method for adapting the size of network function's resource allocation control interval is proposed that provides dynamic configuration of the system, reducing excessive service data transmitted in the network, and decrease the load of network nodes. The workload service system model is built which outlines a method of workload forecasting, which takes into account long-term accumulated statistics and recent trends observed in a network that allows a rational level of management costs and final values of quality of service. Experiments on the study of the proposed methods in the system of Mathcad are conducted.