DE Cloud computing; Mobile security; Belief-action-outcome; Distributed
   infrastructure; Morphological box; Shadow IT
ID COMPUTING ADOPTION; VIGNETTE TECHNIQUE; SYSTEMS; PERSPECTIVE; INNOVATION
AB Purpose - On account of its easy and intuitive usage as well as obvious advantages (e.g. access to work data from anywhere, at any time and through any means) the evolutionary cloud computing paradigm favors the use of shadow IT. Since many employees are not aware of the associated risks and possible legal violations, unauthorized use of cloud computing services could result in substantial risk exposure for any company. The purpose of this paper is to explore and to extend the body of knowledge concerning the topic of cloud computing with regard to shadow IT.
   Design/methodology/approach - The aim of this contribution is to identify the reasons for the use of cloud computing services and the resulting shadow IT from an employee's perspective, to demonstrate the counteractions a company may take against the unauthorized use of cloud computing services and to elaborate on the inherent opportunities and risks. We follow a mixed-methods approach consisting of a systematic literature review, a cloud computing awareness study, a vignette study and expert interviews.
   Findings - Based on a triangulation of the data sets, the paper at hand proposes a morphological box as well as a two-piece belief-action-outcome model, both from an employee's and employer's point of view. Our findings ultimately lead to recommendations for action for employers to counteract the risk exposure. Furthermore, also employees are sensitized by means of insights into the topic of unauthorized usage of cloud computing services in everyday working life.
   Research limitations/implications - The limitations of the triangulation reflect the limitations of each applied research method. These limitations justify why a mixed-methods approach is favored - rather than relying on a single source of data - because data from various sources can be triangulated.
   Practical implications - The paper includes recommendations for action for the handling of the unauthorized usage of cloud computing services within a company, e.g., the set up of a company-wide cloud security strategy and the conduction of an anonymous employee survey to identify the status quo.
   Originality/value - This paper fulfills an identified need to explore the usage of cloud computing services within the context of shadow IT.