DE Cloud computing; New technology; Confucian ethics perspective;
   Information ethics cognition (IEC); Kohlberg's CMD model; Technology
   mediated learning (TML)
ID MORAL DEVELOPMENT; PRIVACY CALCULUS; DECISION-MAKING; SELF-DISCLOSURE;
   E-COMMERCE; CULTURE; SYSTEMS; CODE; ORGANIZATIONS; PROFESSIONALS
AB Purpose -The purpose of this paper is to suggest that the information ethics (IE) of students appear to improve more through adoption of the technology mediated learning (TML) platform rather than face-to-face (FTF) approach. In addition, it shows the pattern changes in each scenario resulting from the ethics training and analyses them from the Confucian ethics perspective, indicating that researchers should consider this aspect in future models.
   Design/methodology/approach - This study employed non-parametric methods to test the outcome of the "information ethics course" of two kinds of training platforms. FTF training: 193 students; TML training: 185 students.
   Findings - The TML platform produces a more significant improvement in the students' respect for rules, privacy, accessibility, and intellectual property (IP) cognition, rather than the FTF method. Based on the findings, two propositions (eight sub-propositions) are formulated and revised two sub-propositions.
   Research limitations/implications-However, this study has a few limitations that can be enhanced by further research in the future: first, the data were only collected from one university (National Pingtung University), thus, the external validity is not satisfactory for all Chinese context students. Second, it is necessary to collect both of scenario-based and qualitative data from different cultural context students (such as Mainland China, the USA, Europe, Arabia, etc.) and then compare their results, thereby making further contributions to the current study. Third, the study was intentionally used as the measure of progress in ethical understanding without highlighting the difference between intentionality and actual behavior.
   Originality/value - Teachers should draw upon the principles of Ren, Yi, and Li, from the Confucian ethics perspective to encourage students to respect the IE for Chinese context students. In addition, emphasis should be placed on the ability of students to build their information ethics cognition through the cognitive information processing learning methods, which can enhance the "accessibility," " accuracy," " privacy," and "IP" cognition of Chinese students in both the FTF and TML platform learning process. This will help to reduce students' unethical behavior as they advance in their future careers.