DE Cloud computing; Control theory; Vertical memory elasticity; Interactive
   application performance; Memory utilization
ID MANAGEMENT
AB Web-facing applications are expected to provide certain performance guarantees despite dynamic and continuous workload changes. As a result, application owners are using cloud computing as it offers the ability to dynamically provision computing resources (e.g., memory, CPU) in response to changes in workload demands to meet performance targets and eliminates upfront costs. Horizontal, vertical, and the combination of the two are the possible dimensions that cloud application can be scaled in terms of the allocated resources. In vertical elasticity as the focus of this work, the size of virtual machines (VMs) can be adjusted in terms of allocated computing resources according to the runtime workload. A commonly used vertical resource elasticity approach is realized by deciding based on resource utilization, named capacity-based. While a new trend is to use the application performance as a decision making criterion, and such an approach is named performance-based. This paper discusses these two approaches and proposes a novel hybrid elasticity approach that takes into account both the application performance and the resource utilization to leverage the benefits of both approaches. The proposed approach is used in realizing vertical elasticity of memory (named as vertical memory elasticity), where the allocated memory of the VM is auto-scaled at runtime. To this aim, we use control theory to synthesize a feedback controller that meets the application performance constraints by auto-scaling the allocated memory, i.e., applying vertical memory elasticity. Different from the existing vertical resource elasticity approaches, the novelty of our work lies in utilizing both the memory utilization and application response time as decision making criteria. To verify the resource efficiency and the ability of the controller in handling unexpected workloads, we have implemented the controller on top of the Xen hypervisor and performed a series of experiments using the RUBBoS interactive benchmark application, under synthetic and real workloads including Wikipedia and FIFA. The results reveal that the hybrid controller meets the application performance target with better performance stability (i.e., lower standard deviation of response time), while achieving a high memory utilization (close to 83%), and allocating less memory compared to all other baseline controllers. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.