DE Forecasting; Cloud computing; Computational modeling; Load modeling;
   Predictive models; Energy efficiency; Data centers; Cloud computing
   resource load; wavelet decomposition; combined forecasting model; grey
   model; cubic exponential smoothing model
AB Cloud computing is generally considered as a special energy-efficient form for the Internet of Things (IoT) resource usage. Dedicated server systems for cloud services, better capacity utilization and economies of scale because of the use of larger and more energy-efficient data centers are the reasons why cloud solutions typically use less energy than traditional on-premise systems. To scientifically and rationally configure the hardware and software resources of the cloud computing, the research on forecasting a cloud computing resource load becomes a research focus. However, the widely-used single forecasting model cannot contain all the characteristics of the cloud computing resource load sequence, resulting in inaccurate forecasting results. In this paper, a combined forecasting approach of cloud computing resource load based on wavelet decomposition is proposed, which combined the grey model and cubic exponential smoothing model. It can well preserve details and reduce noise. Firstly, the cloud computing resource load sequence is decomposed into several frequencies by the wavelet decomposition method. The decomposed load sequences with different characteristics are divided into different resolution scale subspaces in deferent frequencies. The noise of the load sequences is reduced by the wavelet threshold denoising method. And then, the load sequences are reconstructed according to the wavelet coefficients. The reconstructed load sequence not only contains less noise but also reserves detailed information. Consequently, it is closer to the real data and more regular. Experimental results show that our proposed combined forecasting model with wavelet decomposition can provide more accurate forecasting results than each single forecasting model or the combined forecasting model without using the wavelet decomposition method. Thus, our proposal is demonstrated to be efficient for forecasting the cloud computing resource load and helping to reduce energy consumption.