DE Antarctic ice sheet; Glacial Isostatic Adjustment; GRACE; ICESat; Mass
   change
ID SHEET MASS-BALANCE; SEA-LEVEL RISE; RECONCILED ESTIMATE; SATELLITE DATA;
   GRAVITY-FIELD; SYSTEM; MODEL; EARTH
AB The Antarctic Ice Sheet (AIS) is the largest single mass of ice on Earth, if fully melted, would contribute more than 60 meters of sea level rise. Accurate quantification of the mass balance of AIS is very important to improve our understanding and prediction of its response and contribution to sea level change. The Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE) mission has provided a new means to detect AIS.mass change since its launch in 2002, but there are large uncertainties in applying GRACE to estimate AIS mass balance. Of these, the dominant error comes from the inaccurate knowledge of Glacial Isostatic Adjustment (GIA), which is the ongoing response of the solid Earth due to the changing ice-ocean load during the last ice age.
   The fact that GRACE senses all sources of mass change at the Earth's surface requires removing non-glacier changes by independent datasets or models. Mass change signals associated with GIA are poorly known in Antarctica due to very sparse geophysical and climatological data to constrain the glacial history and often dominate GRACE error budgets. In this study, we explore an approach to estimate GIA through the combination of GRACE satellite gravity and Ice, Cloud, and Land Elevation Satellite (ICESat) altimetry data sets. The GIA results are completely independent of any previous reconstruction of the Antarctic glacial history and derived from direct observations by satellite techniques.
   Our study developed the approach proposed by Gunter et al. (2014) for empirical estimation of present-day Antarctic GIA and ice mass change using a combination of satellite altimetry and gravimetry. An ICESat surface height change estimated from the crossover analysis approach was combined with three different GRACE solutions for the period between February of 2003 and October of 2009. Based on the previous method of the low-precipitation zone (LPZ) bias correction, weighted ice flow speed correction and GPS spherical fitting methods are created. When the GIA results computed by the combination data were compared to the GPS ground station displacements, the results showed our correction methods helped reduce the impact of the mm-level biases.
   The new GIA results show the presence of strong uplift in the two main ice shelves and the northern Transantarctic Mountains regions in West Antarctica (WA), as well as subsidence in most areas of East Antarctica (EA) except for Kalser Wilhelm II Land. The total GIA-related mass change estimates for the entire AIS ranged from 38. 4 to 47. 5 Gt/a depending on different GRACE solution used. Our estimates are considerably smaller than the values of 75. 6 to 146. 8 Gt/a obtained from G14, W12a and ICE5G. Over the period between February of 2003 and October of 2009, the corresponding ice mass change for AIS showed the average values of -66.7 +/- 54. 5 Gt/a (GRACE) and -77. 2 +/- 21. 5 Gt/a (ICESat). Compared to other GIA models, our estimates can minimize the discrepancy between the values of ice mass change measured by the GRACE and ICESat.