DE Mobile computing; mobile cloud computing; GPS calculations; hybrid
   security method; fingerprint
AB Mobile capability development increases with the need to use it. However, mobile devices still lack computational resources. Mobile cloud computing is the solution to overcome these challenges. Extensive research has been conducted to solve these problems, and a large number of new techniques were developed. Many of these researches solve the resource problem by partitioning and offloading applications to the cloud to tap its full computational and storage availability. Other methods involve offloading part of the applications while retaining the rest for processing on the smartphone - the decision making in these techniques based on metrics such as power and CPU consumption. Also, small numbers of available solutions consider security issues. This paper proposed a new elastic framework named secure framework for mobile capabilities augmentation using cloud computing (SMCACC) that enables transparent use of cloud resources to augment the capabilities of resource-constrained mobile devices. A significant feature of this framework is the partition of a single application into multiple components. Mobile apps can be executed on the mobile device itself or offloaded to the cloud clone for execution. Thus, the elastic application can augment the capabilities of a mobile device to save energy for a mobile device. Besides, a hybrid cryptography method is used to secure data and take energy consumption in the considerations. The new proposed security protocols use a combination of both symmetric and asymmetric cryptographic techniques to avoids the disadvantages of the existing hybrid protocols. These methods help to protect users by securing data that offloaded to the cloud. The results of this framework without security show the resources consumed for executing the application on mobile and cloud are decreased approximately to half of the memory consumed for running app on the mobile-only. According to the security framework, the resources consumed for executing the application on mobile still decreased.