AB NETWORK MEASUREMENT-BECAUSE it is typically at arm's length from humans-does not comfortably fit into the usual human-centered models for evaluating ethical research practices. Nonetheless, the network measurement community increasingly finds its work potentially affects humans' well-being and itself poorly prepared to address the resulting ethical issues. Here, we discuss why ethical issues are different for network measurement versus traditional human-subject research and propose requiring measurement papers to include a section on ethical considerations. Some of the ideas will also prove applicable to other areas of computing systems measurement, where a researcher's attempt to measure a system could indirectly or even directly affect humans' well-being.
   A conference program committee (PC) is usually the first outside independent organization to evaluate research work that measures network systems. In recent years, questions about whether the work submitted follows sound ethical practices have become increasingly common within PC discussions. We have experience with this situation as researchers and as members and leaders of PCs struggling with ethical concerns.
   The fundamental cause of this struggle is that the network measurement community lacks a set of shared ethical norms. Historically, measurements of computing and communications systems have not been viewed as affecting humans to a degree that they require ethical review. Indeed, ethics review boards often declare measurement research "exempt" from full review as not involving human subjects; Burnett and Feamster(4) described such an experience in 2015. Beyond the need to protect the privacy of communications content, researchers lack consensus about how to ethically handle even the most basic situations. Authors often work from one set of ethical notions, while a PC applies one or more different sets of ethical notions as part of its review. This divergence leaves well-meaning researchers-in all roles-on fundamentally different pages. The situation is further exacerbated because the network measurement community lacks a culture of describing the ethical reasoning behind a set of experiments. It also leaves PCs to infer the ethical foundations on which a paper is based, while precautions taken by careful researchers are not exposed to others who may leverage or build on previous techniques in subsequent work.
   In this article, we advocate requiring an "ethical considerations" section in measurement papers as a first step toward addressing these issues. By requiring such a section-even if the result is a statement that there are no ethical issues-we provide the starting point for a discussion about ethics in which authors have a chance to justify the ethical foundations of their experimental methodologies and PC members can review the authors' perspective and provide specific feedback, as necessary. Further, by including these sections in published papers, the entire research community would begin to develop a collective understanding of both what is ethically acceptable and how to think through ethics issues.(a)
   Our aim here is to present an initial straw man for discussing ethics. We do not attempt to prescribe what is and what is not ethical. We do not tackle all possible ethical questions that arise in our work as Internet empiricists. Rather, we advocate for a framework to help the measurement research community start an explicit conversation about the largest ethical issues involved in measuring networked systems (such as the Internet, cloud computing systems, and distributed transactions systems).