DE Near infrared spectrum; Table grapes; Shelf life prediction; Process
   safety
ID SULFUR-DIOXIDE; SHELF-LIFE; SEEDLESS; QUALITY; STORAGE
AB In view of the fact that fresh keeping agents based on sulfur dioxide are commonly used in table grape logistics and actual logistics process of table grapes, we studied the shelf life prediction method of table grapes under 4 temperatures and constant concentrations of sulfur dioxide based on near infrared spectrum (NIR) and the evolution of texture in this work. According to multi-stage logistics process of table grapes, logistics process safety system based on cloud computing was designed to reduce the loss of table grapes in the logistics. The change of texture is an important cause of table grapes to end their shelf life in postharvest logistics with the using of sulfur dioxide. The technology of NIR has advantages of rapid and nondestructive testing. It would be of great realistic significance as to the combination of NIR, food quality dynamic change and information technology which are to be used to the logistics process safety management. In this work, we used SO2 concentration sensors to control solenoid valves, and obtained the set SO2 concentrations by automatic compensation mechanism. The evolutions of table grape texture under different concentrations of sulfur dioxide were studied as well as the influence of temperature. The NIR pretreatment effects of multiplicative scatter correction and the first S-G derivation were compared. The table grape texture nondestructive testing model built base on NIR and partial least squares regression achieved a determination coefficient of 0. 93 and the root mean squared error (RMSE) was 1. 70. In full cross-validation, the prediction accuracy reached to 0. 81 and got a RMSE of 2. 91. The consistency of processing results of local software and cloud computing was verified. And the comparative test showed that the same processing results could be gained from both methods. The combined applications of NIR nondestructive testing and information technology to the postharvest logistics management of fruits and vegetables could realize the left shelf life early warning based on rapid detection and continuous monitoring and improve the precise of logistics management and food security.