DE Cloud broker; Cloud computing; IaaS; Trusted computing
AB The potential market of cloud computing has encouraged various providers to offer their services on the cloud platform. This ever growing number of cloud providers is resulting in the demand of the brokering services for cloud computing providers as the consumers requires support in acquiring appropriate services for their functionality. It require a lot of time and efforts in analyzing the market and information about various service providers. To cope up with this problem it is better for consumers to use a brokering service to finalize the cloud service provider. In last few years, the researchers have focused on developing brokering services for cloud computing environment. Mostly these brokers performs the matching of consumers requirement and facilities provided by provider. Some of the brokers also performs the ranking of providers to help the consumers. However, these broker performs this matching only on the basis of the demand of cloud resources such as processor, RAM, disk space, bandwidth etc. We call these parameters as standard attributes. In this paper, we proposed a multipurpose cloud broker system to search cloud resources with the help of standard and custom attributes and control these resources. The cloud broker provides an optimized list of cloud resources based on selected attributes to help the consumer in selection of most suitable resources. Two level architecture is used to develop this cloud broker system. At level one, there is a master broker, which consists of three modules namely registration, searching and controlling. At the second level, there is a local broker on each resource provider site. It provides information of resources to master broker and help consumers to control their leased resources. This local broker works under control of master broker. Extensive experiments have been performed to prove the effectiveness of the proposed approach. From the results of experimentations, it is evident that proposed broker helps consumers to get best available resources. Currently, we are enhancing this broker so that it can also perform resource management operations for intercloud environment.