DE environmental benefits; cloud services; ElGamal cryptosystem; Hyper
   Elliptical Curve Cryptography; BAT algorithm; point addition; point
   doubling and elliptic curve cryptography
ID FRAMEWORK; THREATS; ISSUES
AB Cloud services is used by many organizations and it has captured a major segment of the competitive market today. The green, or eco-friendly, aspect of the cloud is one of the most multifaceted advantages of cloud computing. The environmental advantages of cloud services include: reducing a firm's carbon footprint, data center efficiency, dematerialization, saving green, educed electricity use and so on. Even with its unprecedented growth, the question of security is also of paramount concern among the users of cloud services. There is a huge demand for new protocols and tools in order to enhance and assess the security strength of its service. Notwithstanding the present methods used for encrypting the files in cloud they are not highly efficient. Hence this enhanced technique is proposed to overcome all these challenges and improve the environmental benefits. In this method, initially the authentication of the user is verified. Once the authentication of the user is verified successfully dual encryption is performed on the cloud stored files using ElGamal cryptosystem and Hyper Elliptical Curve Cryptography (HECC). The aim for using the proposed system is for analysis of security which can be enhanced through the technique of sharing many keys amongst the two parties. Integer selection is an important attribute which defines the proper security to the cloud storage. For ensuring high security, this integer selection is performed by utilizing BAT algorithm. After the encryption, the suggested technique uses the HECC algorithm. In HECC, key generation is done by point addition and point doubling based elliptic curve cryptography. The dual encryption in this method provides efficient security to the cloud data. The proposed technique performance is evaluated in reference with environmental protection, storage cost, computation cost and execution time and is implemented in JAVA. The experimental results show the efficacy of the system as it utilizes only less time for both encryption and decryption of sensitive data.