DE Internet of Things; Network of Things; Wireless sensor Networks
AB A radical evolution of the current Internet into a Network of interconnected objects that not only senses information from the environment and interacts with the physical world, but also uses existing Internet standards to provide services for information transfer, analytics, applications and communications results in an enormous amount of vital applications. The pervasive nature of the information sources means that a great amount of data pertaining to possibly every aspect of human activity, both public and private, will be produced, transmitted, collected, stored and processed. Consequently, integrity and confidentiality of transmitted data, as well as the authentication of (and trust in) the services that offer the data, is crucial. Hence, security is a critical functionality for the Internet of Things (IoT). The enormous growth of mobile devices capability, critical automation industry fields and the widespread of wireless communication cast need for the seamless provision of mobile web services IoT environment. These are enriched by mobile cloud computing. However, it puts a challenge to its reliability, data authentication, power consumption and security issues. There is also need for auto- self-operated sensors for geo-sensing, agriculture, automatic cars, factories, roads, medicals application and more. IoT is still highly not reliable in points of integration between how its devices are connected; this means that there is poor utilization of the existing IP security protocols.
   Our solution is based on the use of existing security protocols between clients and the mobile hosts as well as a key management protocol between the individual mobile hosts implementing an out-of-band key exchange that is simple in practice, flexible and secure. We study the performance of this approach by evaluating a prototype implementation of our security framework. This paper at a preliminary manner, discusses the threats, hacks, misguided packets, over read sensor message. These packets are then translated by hardware and pushed through the web for a later on action or support. Our testing to a set of sensor triggered scenario and set up clearly indicates the security threats from a wireless connected small LAN environments and the overestimated sensor messages resulting from the initial set of the sensor readings, while we emphasize more on the security level of the web services serving the IoT connected device.