DE Cloud computing; Infrastructure as a service; Virtual machine
   consolidation; Prediction; Kernel density estimation; AKKA Toolkit
ID VIRTUAL MACHINE PLACEMENT; DYNAMIC CONSOLIDATION; SERVER CONSOLIDATION;
   ENERGY EFFICIENCY; MIGRATION; ALGORITHM; PERFORMANCE; HEURISTICS
AB Recent years have witnessed a rapid growth in exploiting Cloud environments to host and deliver various types of virtualized resources as on-demand services. In order to optimally use Cloud resources, the arrangement of virtual machines (VMs) in physical machines (PMs) must be performed strategically, because the placement of VMs in accordance with the available resources can reduce energy consumption, improve resource utilization and, consequently, can increase companies benefits. However, VMs could have time varying workloads, which leads to degradation of performance and power consumption. Thus, re-configuring the VMs placement is essential. Virtual machine consolidation aims to optimally use the available resources by allocating several virtual machines on a set of physical ones (PMs). To determine the PMs capacities to reallocate VMs, it is important to predict their states based on resource utilization history within each VM, and the past VMs migration traffic. However, a common limitation between existing VM consolidation approaches is the lack of information about the history of (and the future) VM migration traffic. Through this paper, we aim to propose a virtual machine consolidation approach based on the estimation of requested resources and the future VM migration traffic. We exploit the strength of Kernel Density Estimation technique (KDE) as a powerful mean to forecast the future resource usage of each VM, and AKKA toolkit as an actor-based model that allows exchanging useful information about the host's states. We adopt a weighted-graph representation to model the history of migration traffic between PMs and to design the actor-based topology of the data center. The obtained results show the effectiveness of our approach in terms of total number of migrations and energy consumption. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Inc.