DE nuclear magnetic resonance; quantum computing; quantum simulation;
   nuclear magnetic resonance quantum cloud computing
ID EFFECTIVE PURE STATES; EXPERIMENTAL REALIZATION; MATHEMATICAL-THEORY;
   FACTORING ALGORITHM; NMR; DYNAMICS; COMPUTATION; COMPUTERS;
   IMPLEMENTATION; SEQUENCE
AB In the last 20 years, there have been lots of novel developments and remarkable achievements in quantum information processing theoretically and experimentally. Among them, the coherent control of nuclear spin dynamics is a powerful tool for the experimental implementation of quantum schemes in liquid and solid nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) system, especially in liquid-state NMR. Compared with other quantum information processing systems, NMR platform has many advantages such as the long coherence time, the precise manipulation and well-developed quantum control techniques, which make it possible to accurately control a quantum system with up to 12-qubits. Extensive applications of liquid-state NMR spectroscopy in quantum information processing such as quantum communication, quantum computing and quantum simulation have been thoroughly studied over half a century. There are also many outstanding researches in the recent several years. So we focus on the recent researches in this review article. First, we introduce the basic principle of the liquid-state NMR quantum computing and two new methods reported in the pseudo-pure state preparation which has more advantages than the traditional methods. The quantum noise-injection methods and the quantum tomography technology in liquid-state NMR are also mentioned. Then we overview Horrow-Hassidim-Lioyd algorithm, quantum support vector machine algorithm, duality quantum computing and their implementations in liquid-state NMR system. Also, we report recent researches about quantum simulations, including quantum tunneling, high-energy physics and topological sequences. Then we display the quantum cloud platform of our group. In order to let more people, either amateurs or professionals, embrace and more importantly participate in the tidal wave of quantum science, we launch our NMR quantum cloud computing (NMRCloudQ) service. Through NMRCloudQ, we offer a direct access to a real, physical spectrometer in our laboratory and encourage users to explore quantum phenomena and demonstrate quantum algorithms. Finally, we discuss the development prospects and development bottlenecks of NMR, and point out the prospects for the future development direction.