DE Priority Based Scheduling; Multiple Credits Based Scheduling; Scheduling
   Strategies in Cloud Computing; Modified K-Means; Categorization of
   Virtual Machines; Categorization of Tasks; Improving Makespan in Cloud;
   Reduction in Total Computational Cost in Cloud; QoS; High performance
   network virtualization; Task Allocation Strategies; Virtualization;
   Efficient Task Scheduling Strategies; Clustering Method; Four Credits
   based Scheduling; Scheduling Algorithm in Cloud; Efficiency Improvement
   in Cloud; Rearrangement of Jobs in Cloud; Mapping Cloudlets to VMs;
   Reducing Prediction Error in Cloud Computing
ID SCHEDULING ALGORITHM
AB In the present era, cloud computing has earned much popularity, mainly because of its utilities and relevance with the current technological trends. It is an arrangement which is highly customizable and encapsulated for providing better computational services to its clients worldwide. In cloud computing, scheduling plays a pivotal role in the optimal utilization of resources. Prevalent priority based job scheduling strategies are silent in deciding scheduling scheme for tasks with the same priority and strive hard in appropriately allocating jobs to virtual machines. In the recent years, despite of much research in this field, these scheduling algorithms are unable to provide optimal solution and are lacking in one way or the other in their performance and efficiency. Work pertaining to the use of four criteria/credits for deciding priority, with modified K-means clustering technique is scant. Therefore, to eliminate the drawbacks of the prevalent or existing system and to enhance the performance and efficiency of cloud computing, a new credits based scheduling algorithm has been rendered. The proposed system considers four real time parameters/factors namely Task-Length, Task-Priority, Deadline and Cost, as credits and uses Modified K-means Clustering technique for categorizing the cloudlets and virtual machines (VMs). Results indicate that the suggested scheduling algorithm has excelled existing priority-based scheduling strategy and it has been empirically proven with experimental/simulated results in this paper. CloudSim 3.0.3, a Cloud Simulation Tool has been used to implement and test the proposed algorithm. (C) 2020 Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Faculty of Computers and Artificial Intelligence, Cairo University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).