DE cloud computing; distributed database; enterprise cloud technologies;
   cloud computing efficiency; cloud architecture
AB The article describes the main characteristics, types and properties of cloud computing. The most widespread cloud technologies in Ukraine are analyzed. It is identified that the largest share among users of cloud technologies in Ukraine currently belong to large holdings, IT companies, commercial enterprises and banks, but other sectors of business are also involved in the development of these services. The aim of the article is to develop the methodology for evaluating the efficiency of cloud technologies implementation at enterprises and its experimental verification. The economic component of the cloud computing implementation at enterprises (expenditures and revenues of both cloud technology owners and users) is considered. The efficiency of using cloud computing at enterprises is proved. It is found that organizations usually do not use the power of their personal data centers to a full extent. This leads to idle equipment, extra cost on maintenance and servicing of hardware, amortization, staff salaries and etc. The feasibility of transition of enterprises to cloud computing in such situations has been proved, which considerably reduce the costs of the enterprise due to the absence of need for hardware and necessary staff to support the operation of information systems. Usability of the methodology of total cost of ownership in evaluating the effectiveness of using services for the enterprise has been proved. The proposed methodology compares the main costs of using personal data centers and the cost of using cloud computing. It is experimentally proven that in most cases, the cost of maintaining personal data center (PDC) is higher than the cost of cloud services. It is also proved that the efficiency of cloud technology operation depends on the internal structure and organization of computing processes inside the systems, as well as on external factors such as the size of enterprises-clients, industries, costs for the organization of data centers, etc. Cloud computing is an advanced technology which has future prospects and is cost-effective for both enterprise users and provider organizations.