DE Vehicular heterogeneous network; mobile edge computing; multipath
   transmission; work-load allocation
AB With the rapid development of intelligent transportation, various applications which have millisecond delay requirements appear in the vehicular heterogeneous network. Offloading these delay-sensitive applications into edge nodes is a trend and direction of development. However, with the increase in the number of vehicular applications, the conventional methods of distance-based edge node workload allocation make the workload allocation unbalanced, causing some edge nodes to be overloaded, resulting in response time of corresponding application being too long to meet low delay requirements. In this paper, we tackle the problem of edge node overload and propose a multipath transmission workload balancing optimization scheme, which uses multipath transmission in the edge computing architecture as the transport protocol support for the communications between the vehicles and the edge nodes and the real-time virtual machine (VM) migration happens between the edge nodes. First, the application is assigned to the edge node closest to each vehicle. When the workload of the edge node exceeds its capacity, the scheme iteratively selects the application with the longest response time. Second. if its response time exceeds the response time passed to the cloud computing center, it is assigned to the cloud computing center for processing; if not, it is reassigned to the standby edge to minimize its response time until all vehicle applications cannot find a better edge node. Then, computing resources are allocated to each edge node, and resources of different sizes are allocated to different types of VMs in each edge node through convex optimization. Finally, the extensive simulation results illustrate that the multipath transmission workload balancing optimization scheme can effectively reduce the average response time of the vehicular applications compared to existing schemes.