DE digital technologies; information technologies; media research; media
   education; artificial intelligence
ID EDUCATION
AB The process of teaching the future journalists the basics of media education requires the use of advanced research methods of the media environment, which are based on modern information and digital technologies. The article reveals the essence of the concepts of "information technology" and "digital technology". It is noted that the problems of the media market development at the present stage are associated with the lack of research methods used or deviations from them, which increases the risk of inaccurate analysis results. In this regard, it is appropriate to talk about the need for greater responsibility of firms, companies and services conducting research in the field of communications and media. In the practice of media research in Russia and abroad, one can constantly observe the transformation of traditional types and methods of media research (the study of website audiences with the help of counters of visits, cookies etc.).
   Every year the role and importance of expert communities that can help to the effective development of the media research industry increases. One of the prospective areas that can contribute to the development and improvement of media research is the introduction of cloud computing and digital processing of large amounts of data (big data) and the expansion of artificial intelligence. They are connected with the development and increasing relevance of new information and digital technologies that can respond to new challenges of a humanistic and ethical nature.
   These circumstances intensify the need for a comprehensive study of new tools of media research by future journalists in higher education institutions. The article presents the main promising methods of studying the media, carried out with the use of information and digital technologies. It is identified the most important competencies, which is necessary for successful media research in the modern world.