DE Saturn's polar regions; potential vorticity
ID THERMAL STRUCTURE; VORTEX; TEMPERATURE; DYNAMICS; ATMOSPHERE; STABILITY;
   PROFILE; WINDS; SPOTS; MODEL
AB We analyze the potential vorticity of Saturn's polar regions, as it is a fundamental dynamical tracer that enables us to improve our understanding of the dynamics of these regions and their seasonal variability. In particular, we present zonally averaged quasi-geostrophic potential vorticity maps between 68 degrees planetographic latitude and the poles at altitudes between 500 and 1mbar for three different epochs: (i) June 2013 (early northern summer) for the north polar region, (ii) December 2008 (late northern winter) for both polar regions, and (iii) October 2006 (southern summer) for the south, computed using temperature profiles retrieved from Cassini Composite Infrared Spectrometer data and wind profiles obtained from Cassini's Imaging Science Subsystem. The results show that quasi-geostrophic potential vorticity maps are very similar at all the studied epochs, showing positive vorticities at the north and negative at the south, indicative of the dominance of the Coriolis parameter 2sin at all latitudes, except near the pole. The meridional gradients of the quasi-geostrophic potential vorticity show that dynamical instabilities, mainly due to the barotropic term, could develop at the flanks of the Hexagon at 78 degrees N, the jet at 73.9 degrees S, and on the equatorward flank of both polar jets. There are no differences in potential vorticity gradients between the two hemispheres that could explain why a hexagon forms in the north and not in the south. No seasonal variability of the potential vorticity and its meridional gradient has been found, despite significant changes in the atmospheric temperatures over time.
   Plain Language Summary Saturn's polar regions are characterized by a wide variety of cloud morphologies, some of them apparently unique to Saturn, such as the Hexagon wave encircling the north pole. Additionally, Saturn's polar regions undergo strong seasonal variations of sunlight over a 29.5-year cycle (one Saturnian solar orbit), which affect the atmospheric dynamics of these regions. In this study, we analyze the behavior of the polar atmospheric dynamics and its temporal variability, by computing a fundamental tracer of atmospheric motions and meteorology, known as potential vorticity. For this purpose, we use wind profiles from October 2006, December 2008, and June 2013, measured from images captured by the Cassini Imaging Science Subsystem Instrument, and temperatures retrieved from the Cassini Composite and Infrared Spectrometer. Our results show that Saturn's polar atmospheric dynamics displays a similar behavior at both hemispheres, without any significant seasonal variability. We also show that at all studied epochs dynamical instabilities (of barotropic or baroclinic character) could develop at the flanks of the Hexagon jet, at the equivalent polar jet in the south, and at the location of the strong polar cyclones. Our results do not show hints of why a Hexagon is only present in the northern hemisphere.